 With mild spring weather taking hold Southern Europe is bracing for a fresh wave of migrants and asylum-seekers arriving by boat from North Africa. For decades Italy has seen the most arrivals. It also has passed one of Europe's most repressive laws on illegal immigration. The Italian parliament is now trying to repeal a law that is made migrants vulnerable to exploitation and abuse. The law has produced detention camps where undocumented migrants are held in incredibly difficult conditions. NPR's Sylvia Poggioli reports.  The Ponte Galeria detention camp is near Rome's international airport. It is surrounded by open fields but inside it is grim and gray.   Detainees are locked behind bars in what look like cages. At the sight of visitors they shout their various laments.    The camp has been in the media spotlight since late January when more than a dozen Moroccan migrants staged a demonstration. The men had been working in Libya. When they asked to be paid they say their employer forced them onto a rickety vessels headed for Italy where they landed in October. Three months later Hicham Marrach says they resorted to a desperate form of protest. With fishing wire and sewing needles they kept their lips stitched together for a week.   We ended up in a place where we do not speak the language. We have no idea what will happen to us. We committed no crime and yet we end up in jail. Sewing our mouths shut was the only way to make ourselves heard.  Evans Omeo and his wife fled inter-religious conflict in their native Nigeria. They were brought to Ponte Galeria after landing in Sicily in December and placed in segregated male-female sections of the camp. He fears his father-in-law will kill them if they are sent back home.  From Sicily they bring me here - me and my wife. I asked for asylum. Me I am Christian. My wife is a Muslim.  In a nearby caged area where 10 men live in a barracks-like room we meet 29-year-old Bafouday Ceesay. He is from Gambia and has lived in Italy for seven years. But when he lost his job he also lost his permit to stay.  Conditions here are very very bad. Sometimes you do not get hot water. The heater it do not go sometimes so here is cold. No school no nothing here. You do not go to school you do not get work you just sleep eat - is all that we get here.  Undocumented immigrants who end up in detention can by law be held for up to 18 months before being expelled. Those who are fleeing persecution say they are offered little or no assistance in navigating Italy's complex asylum legislation. The NGO Doctors for Human Rights has visited all of Italy's 13 detention camps and issued a scathing report. Alberto Barbieri headed the task force.  These centers are places generating violence against yourself against the structure or generating violence against the others. These centers are useless places of human sufferance.  In 2012 Barbieri says there were an estimated 340000 undocumented immigrants in Italy. Of those some 8000 were detained but of those only 4000 were actually deported.  Only one percent is actually expelled every year of total migrants - undocumented migrants. So what is the utility? It is like to empty the sea with a spoon.  Khalid Chaouki is Italian-born of Moroccan parents and a lawmaker of the governing Democratic Party.   We are trying to reduce the detention period from 18 to two months and radically change management of the centers by establishing specific guidelines.  But Chaouki says demoting illegal immigration from a crime to an administrative violation is only a partial solution. There are hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants in Italy working in agriculture in factories and as caretakers. The real challenge he says is to legally recognize the many immigrants who have formed families put down roots and who contribute to Italian society. As for the continuing wave of migrants there are hundreds of thousands of people in Syria and sub-Saharan Africa still trying to escape conflict. When Italy takes over the EU's rotating chairmanship in June Chaouki says it will propose a European Union-wide agreement granting temporary humanitarian visas so that each member state can take in its share of asylum seekers. Sylvia Poggioli NPR News Rome. 