 I want to ask a question that I thought I could never possibly ask about any story ever - Is a trillion dollars enough?  See that is I mean that is a good question. It is in fact the right question. People have different estimates of how many of these bad things are on banks' balance sheets the numbers we hear.  Everybody's estimate is more than a trillion. It is two three 10.  The numbers you might hear are 2 trillion. I think there is no question that a trillion will be unbelievably helpful. We know that you cannot get them all off immediately. So I think the way Secretary Geithner said is we absolutely start and everyone we get off helps confidence and the question's going to be how how far does it need to go?  Well that is the next question then. Could you end up in a situation where you do this investment you get 1 trillion of bad debts off the books of banks and other institutions and they still have several trillion dollars in debt they are still zombie banks as they are described they are still not in a position to loan money they still do not have enough capital?  The important thing to realize and something we have been trying to work with people that have been thinking about what we are doing is to point out that it is just one of many things that we are doing. So when the secretary of the Treasury announced his overall plan right it had the housing piece it has the small business piece it has the consumer and business lending initiative. The toxic assets is a piece and we certainly think it is important - and so we have put this plan in place we are executing this plan and we are going to be monitoring it.  Is not the Treasury's share of this money the investment here getting pretty close to the last of the bank bailout money you have on hand?  The key thing is we absolutely have enough there to get this thing rolling.  Wait you are saying you are not spending your last dime yet on this particular program?  We are absolutely not spending our last dime. We very much have the money that we think we need to make an important start on this program.  Meaning that if you decided that you needed to buy 2 trillion in bad assets - if that was necessary because other investors just do not come in any other way - you have got the resources now without going to Congress to do that?  Probably not. Right? I think what the key thing is what the president has said is we are going to do what it takes. We have a comprehensive plan in place and the best case this will be all that we need or in a very plausible case. And then what I have great confidence in is that the whole government will do what it needs to get the American economy working again.  You are a student of Great Depression - when President Roosevelt's administration famously improvised its way through the New Deal and made rapid changes. Do you feel like you are improvising now?  I feel like we have learned a lot from the Great Depression. I think in the last 60 years there've been crucial innovations - and I will give you just an example right? Roosevelt had kind of the idea of doing fiscal stimulus - did a quite sort of small fairly half-hearted. I think one of the things that we learned is that if you have a major downturn if you are going to do fiscal stimulus it needs to be bold and aggressive. And that is exactly what we did. So I think we are definitely learning. I would say that we are certainly open to - I would not call it improvisation - but to learning right? If something does not work we are going to be the first people to say that did not work let us try Plan B.  When you think about the average consumer - people right now are spending less they are saving more - do you think that is a fundamental thing that is going to be true for years to come and that any economic plan will have to take into account?  I think that is very likely. We do know that people lost a lot of wealth when the stock market crashed when the housing prices came down. And that is surely going to affect behavior - I think it is not necessarily a bad thing. We certainly have thought that Americans needed to be saving.  Although if consumers are not about to spend more and if the rest of the world is suffering a recession where is it that you anticipate a huge source of growth in the world a year from now other than the U.S. borrowing and spending lots of money and borrowing and spending lots more?  I would say we want to be careful so certainly in the short run what the president has said is when private demand is not there that is the perfect time for the government to step in. It is a great time to do the infrastructure and the public investment what...  Where do you see the recovery coming from? That is what I am curious about.  Okay so I have a lot of faith in economies sort of adjusting to things and so if we do move to a higher savings rate what basic economic theory tells you is that tends to bring down interest rates that tends to encourage investment and so you do not just stay in a low-level equilibrium - you actually get back and there are different sources of demand come in to fill the gap.  Christina Romer thanks very much.  Thank you.  You can read a transcript of this interview at npr.org where we also ask Christina Romer to assess the risk of the trillion dollars in assets we will soon buy. This is NPR News. 