 U.S. trading partners around the world are grappling with how to respond to President Trump's new tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. The president says the move protects U.S. national security. But the fact that Canada Mexico and Australia have been exempted undercuts the notion that this is about national security and it raises speculation that these tariffs will face a legal challenge at the World Trade Organization or the WTO. Pascal Lamy is a former WTO director-general and he joins me now from Paris. Thank you so much for being with us this morning.  My pleasure Rachel.  Do you think the Trump administration's national security argument for these tariffs will hold up if challenged by other nations at the WTO?  Well that is open to interpretation by the WTO dispute settlement. But it for sure looks quite strange to invoke this national securitydefense argument in trade with for instance other NATO members. NATO is a defense alliance between a large number of European countries and the United States of America and the notion that they would be at war with each other is clearly very very stretched - as least seen from Europe.  Right because the EU has not been exempted although President Trump has left open that possibility. Would it hold water for you if they were just tariffs across the board against everyone on these imports?  That would not change A the fact that invoking the national security looks strange and second there is another area which is whether this meets the normal WTO standards for activating a safeguard. You are allowed to do that in WTO provided you can provide the necessary evidence that you have - have been the victim of a sudden unforeseeable surge in imports which at least in European eyes is not the case in the U.S. By the way this is the reason why in 2002 - and I was European trade commissioner at the time - the George W. Bush administration lost its case in WTO.  So those steel tariffs enacted by George W. Bush - those did not meet that standard which is why they lost their case. Let me ask you what if the WTO rules against the U.S. and the Trump administration just decides to ignore that ruling? I mean you yourself have said that the rest of the world quote may not be on the same planet end quote as the Trump administration when it comes to trade. Is the future of the WTO at risk here?  Well these are - if I may Rachel these are two different questions. A what happens if U.S. loses its case and does not comply with the WTO adjudication? The answer is then the winning party is allowed to impose countermeasures which is by the way what the EU has already said. We are ready on the EU side to impose tariffs on Kentucky bourbon Florida orange juice Harley-Davidson and the rest. The answer to the second question is in a way more important and more worrying. Most of the countries on this planet - at least members of the WTO - for the last 50 years have shared a sort of ideological consensus according to a  opening trade is win-win. It seems to be the case now that Mr. Trump and large number of people in his administration have a totally different view of trade which is trade is a win-lose imports are bad exports are good. And this is where I think there is a serious problem. If the U.S. believe WTO is a  which is what Mr. Trump has tweeted if I am properly informed then the WTO members must prepare for a situation where the U.S. would lead WTO. I do not think that would be good for anybody starting with the U.S. by the way because if you leave WTO anybody can do anything with your trade. On the other side there should be - there should be - another solution which is if the U.S. have a problem with WTO let us have a good negotiation. But again this is only possible if there is still a consensus that we need a international global rules-based trading system which is I think what is at stake.  Pascal Lamy - he is the former director-general of the World Trade Organization and European commissioner for trade. And we spoke to him this morning on Skype. Thank you so much.  My pleasure.  