 From NPR News this is WEEKEND EDITION. I am Liane Hansen. And joining us is puzzlemaster Will Shortz. Hey Will. Nice to talk to you.  Hi Liane. It is great to see you last weekend too.  Oh it was such a good time that we had at the 2009 American Crossword Puzzle Championship. And actually we have someone special with us on the show today. It is actually the winner Tyler Hinman. Hi Tyler. Mr.  Hello.  Five wins in a row. Mr.  Yeah.   Whoa. I was there so I actually witnessed what was probably the most exciting crossword puzzle tournament I have seen in my lifetime and I have not seen too many of them. But would you agree Will?  Mine too yes.  So explain like what happened.  Well there were three finalists Tyler was one. He is - was four-time reigning champion. There was Trip Payne and Francis Heaney who is a relative newcomer. So the three of them are racing to solve this final puzzle. They are on stage. They are standing up in front of a giant board. And Trip is the first to finish. He whips off his headphones and the crowd groans because he has two letters wrong. A few minutes later Francis finishes. He has the same two letters wrong. So now Tyler has to finish the puzzle before the 20 minute time limit. He has two letters he cannot fill in. They are different from Trip's and Francis's mistake. And finally in a flash of inspiration he fills in the last two letters whips off his headphones yells done. He thinks he is finished third and he turns around and sees the crowd just erupt in applause.  Wow.  It is just a great great moment.  Tyler were you at all aware that Trip and Francis had not finished? Mr.  You know you really have to assume that they were you know that they were correct and that I was playing for second and then third. But I knew you know obviously given my previous experiences that there is always a chance.  Well congratulations. Stick with us because we want to come back to you later. But first we want to get to our on-air puzzle. And Will I brushed up on my Shakespeare last week.   What was the challenge you left for everyone to solve?  Okay last week's challenge came from our old pal Merl Reagle. I said take the phrase atlas of the world change the E to an R rearrange all the letters to name two cities that are closely related. What cities are they?  And those cities are?  They are Dallas Fort Worth.  Outstanding. Well a lot of people knew the answer to that. We received over 3000 entries. And from those entries we randomly selected Leslie Garcia. Now she lives in Richardson Texas. But as far as we know Leslie our guest today you are pretty close to Dallas huh? Ms.  I am very close to Dallas yes.  Oh that is wonderful coincidence.   Nice serendipity. What do you do there in Texas? Ms.  I write for The Dallas Morning News. I write about fitness. And I have a newsletter and a blog. And I have a column too.  Ah you do the crossword? Ms.  I do the crossword. You bet I do.  How long did it take you to solve this puzzle? Ms.  I solved this one like immediately. I mean some of them you know it haunts me through the week. But this one it was like immediate.   Wow. Ms.  and it was so  Well you really sound pretty prepared to play today. Are you ready?  Ms.  I hope so. I am counting on you Liane.  I am counting on you Leslie. All right Will let us play.  All right Leslie today's theme is elm trees. Every answer is a familiar two-word phrase that contains the consecutive letters E L M. Ms.  Okay.  And specifically the first word will end in E-L and the second word will start with M. Ms.  Okay.  For example if the clue were a publication that a person with wanderlust might read you would say travel magazine. Ms.  Ah-ha okay.  All right number one sort of plant were Pittsburgh workers work. Ms.  Steel mill.  Steel mill excellent. Number two a person who runs a Hyatt or a Four Seasons for example. Ms.  Hotel manager?  That is it. Food giant that is best known for its canned fruit. Ms.  Del Monte.  Nice. Amplifying device for a speaker that clips onto ones clothing. Ms.  Lapel microphone.  That is it. A cooper. A - yeah? Ms.  Cooper as in C? Oh a barrel maker.  A barrel maker good. Discoloration on a floor left by the back of a shoe. Ms.  It would not be a scuff mark. A heel mark.  Heel mark is right. Try this one - old time actress singer who starred in Annie Get Your Gun and Gypsy.  Ms.  Oh. I can see her. Let us see what does it start with? Ethel Merman.  Yes.   Ethel Merman is right. How about this? Former New York senator succeeded by Hillary Clinton. Ms.  I am just drawing a blank. I am sorry.  I am drawing a blank.  That is okay I got you.   Oh I got it. No you did not.  Yeah Liane?  Daniel Moynihan.  Daniel Moynihan nice. Okay. And your last one what Aretha Franklin sings in church.  Well if Saturday night she sings soul   What does she sing Sunday morning? Ms.  S-O-E-L can we?   No. What would she sing on Sunday morning? Ms.  I cannot get the first letter.  Like in G gospel dear gospel. Ms.  Oh gospel.  Gospel music. Nice job.  But still   Oh no no are you kidding? Ms.  I kind of started out strong.  You were. Well Leslie I think you did great and everyone that plays on the air gets to take home some things and actually Tyler Hinman our crossword champion is going to read them for you. So go ahead Tyler. Mr.  All right. For playing our puzzle today you will get a flashy Weekend Edition lapel pin. Ms.  Cool. Mr.  The Eleventh Edition of Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary and Thesaurus the Scrabble Deluxe Edition from Parker Brothers The Puzzlemaster Presents from Random House volume two. And speaking of the puzzlemaster you will get Will Shortz's latest book series Will Shortz Presents KenKen volumes one two and three from St. Martin's Press. And one of Will Shortz's Puzzlemaster Decks of Riddles and Challenges from Chronicle Books.  Oh Tyler Hinman you were great. All right well Leslie before we say goodbye to you tell us what member station you listen to. Ms.  I listen to KERA. And I am a member as of like an hour ago.   Good for you. Good for you. We love it. Leslie Garcia of Richardson Texas. Thanks for playing with us. You were great. Ms.  Thank you so much. It was a lot of fun.  And Tyler Hinman American crossword puzzle champion for 2009. Thanks a lot for helping us out today. Mr.  Oh my pleasure.  All right. And Will you still have more work. What is the challenge for next week?  One more challenge. I am afraid this might be too easy but let us see. Think of a familiar phrase and five words that means tongue-tied. And here's what is unusual about it one word in it has one letter one word has two letters one word has three one has four and one has five not necessarily in that order. What is the phrase? So again a familiar phrase and five words that means tongue-tied. One word in it has one letter one word has two one has three one has four and one has five. What phrase is this?  And he thinks it is too easy. When you have the answer go to our Web site npr.orgpuzzle and click on the Submit Your Answer link. Only one entry per person please. Our deadline this week is Thursday 00 PM Eastern Time. Please include a phone number where we can reach you at about that time because we will call you if you are the winner. And you will get to play puzzle on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION'S Puzzlemaster Will Shortz. Will thanks a lot.  Thanks Liane. 