 U.S. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin has just landed in Afghanistan in an unannouced visit a country experiencing a troubling trend. Assassins have been killing some of the country's most influential people - journalists human rights activists judicial workers and doctors. The killings began escalating last September when the Afghan government started peace talks with the Taliban. NPR's Diaa Hadid reports.  Fatima Roshanian rarely leaves her house. But it is not the pandemic keeping her home. It is the murders. Roshanian runs a feminist magazine Nimrokh. It covers topics like sex virginity periods marital affairs - shocking stuff by Afghan standards.   My name appeared on three different lists on social media.  These are lists of people marked for murder. She shows the list to NPR producer Khwaga Ghani in Kabul.  .  .  On one list she is No. 11. Roshanian's been threatened in the past but this time it is different. The U.N. estimates that more than 700 people have been murdered since September in targeted killings.  I think it has been unprecedented in terms of how many people have been killed in a short time period and how it has not stopped.  Shaharzad Akbar is the chairperson of the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission. She says in 40 years of war she is never seen anything like the scope of these assassinations. They include a religious scholar gunned down in the street a doctor killed in a targeted bomb blast a prosecutor shot while going to work a television presenter shot as she left work. Wahida Faizi is from the Afghan Journalists Safety Committee. She says it is become so bad that they flung up shelters for threatened journalists.  .  Faizi says they are also distributing bulletproof vests and they are helping some of those threatened leave the country. It is not clear who was behind the carnage. Most of the murders have gone unclaimed. Western countries blame the Taliban and many Afghans agree like this feminist. She recently received a death threat so she is asked that we not use her name. She says it is no coincidence the killings stepped up after Afghan peace talks began.  .  She says the murders are a way for the Taliban to flex their muscle during the negotiations. See this is what we can do. And it silences those who are most likely to disagree with their hard-line methods.   They are targeting journalists and civil society people who can raise their voice people who can tell the international community what is happening. They want to shut them up.  The Taliban deny they are behind the killings. And Fatima Roshanian who runs the women's magazine thinks it is a bit more complicated. She thinks the death lists like the ones she is appeared on are being worked up by locals conservatives Taliban sympathizers and people with grudges. They are doxing for the Taliban.   These lists tell the Taliban these are the people who are making trouble who are putting new thoughts in women's heads. They identify us so the Taliban can then kill us.  Some caution it might not just be the Taliban. One cleric who survived an assassination attempt says government intelligence officials are also targeting people. Others could be score settling. Akbar from the Human Rights Commission says regardless of who is behind the killings the intention is clear.  It is a deliberate attempt to kill people or scare them away from the country. Unfortunately it has worked.  Those who stay are shutting up. Some have quit their jobs. Roshanian the feminist magazine editor still works from home. But her friends are urging her to flee.   They tell me the situation will not change with your writing and they will kill you.  But she says if I go who will be left to defend Afghanistan? Diaa Hadid NPR News Islamabad. 