 Last night on CBS' 60 Minutes Stephanie Clifford who is better known as Stormy Daniels described an affair she says she had with Donald Trump.  Right. The adult film actress essentially laid out a timeline of events. She said that in 2006 she had sex with Trump in his hotel room. And then there was what happened afterwards. Daniels talked about an incident in 2011. She says she felt threatened to keep quiet about her encounter with Trump.   A guy walked up on me and said to me leave Trump alone. Forget the story. And then he leaned around and looked at my daughter and said a beautiful little girl. It would be a shame if something happened to her mom. And then he was gone.  She did eventually sign a nondisclosure agreement through Trump's lawyer. She reportedly accepted 130000. Now that took place right before the 2016 election. And it raises the question of whether that counts as an undisclosed campaign contribution.  A lot of questions about this story and CNN's Hadas Gold has been following it. She is in our studio this morning. Hi Hadas.  Good morning.  You really have been following - this is - story's almost been your beat in a way recently. It is...  Inadvertently sure.   So what stood out to you in this interview?  Definitely the newest part is her discussion of the threats because the idea of their relationship we have sort of known about - she had the story in In Touch magazine. And that threat that she is talking about is in - is important to know about the date is in 2011 - after she allegedly did that unpublished interview with In Touch magazine where - she said that she was offered 50000 to do it. She does it. That is when she did that polygraph exam. And then she says when she was approached randomly in the parking lot outside of a fitness class by this unknown person who threatened her - and that is where really the biggest part of this story was - from last night - was what happened after the relationship? It was how the - pretty much what they are saying is a cover up - the alleged hush money and also these possible threats on her life.  And she was asked at one point if she has evidence she can offer for all of this taking place. And her answer was a little strange. Like she seemed to say maybe but did not want to really talk about it.  They have been very cagey about that and you have to keep in mind that she is working with a lawyer. And she herself are very media savvy. And they know what they are doing when it comes to keeping the public interested and keeping the story alive. They have referenced in their lawsuit the possible existence of text messages videos pictures things like that. And when asked directly last night by Anderson Cooper she said that her lawyer told her not to talk about it at this moment.  What happens now in terms of the legal questions here? I mean she could face a massive fine for just giving this interview potentially right?  Yes. I mean technically according to her NDA she faces a million dollars per infraction. And according to Cohen and his lawyers she is already hit 20 million worth of infractions. So right now her lawsuit is going through the legal system. And I mean we can even see the president himself deposed in this but there is a long way to go.  So that is what happens next. I mean we see what the next stage is in...  Of her lawsuit.  ...In her lawsuit...  Yes.  ...And whether the president's drawn in. All right. Hadas Gold from CNN who is been following this story. Hadas thanks as always.  Thank you.  We appreciate it. I want to bring in NPR's White House correspondent Tamara Keith. Hey Tam  Hello.  So the president - no response yet to this interview and what Stormy Daniels said?  President Trump has not directly responded. A lawyer for Michael Cohen has denied that there was a threat and sent a cease and desist. And we should say there is sort of a blanket denial from the White House and from Cohen that this relationship ever existed. But there is not a new one. Also a spokeswoman for first lady Melania Trump sent out a tweet asking people not to reference President Trump's minor child by name in news stories when at all possible. President Trump's youngest son would have been a baby at the time that this relationship occurred if it did occur.  The first lady's obviously saying that they do not want to bring his name into any of the stories on this.  Yeah and there is a sort of a long-standing tradition of leaving the kids of the presidents out of the news whenever possible. And then also before the interview ever aired Chris Ruddy who is the CEO of Newsmax and also a friend of President Trump was on ABC's This Week and issued this denial.   I can only tell you what he told me. He said he thought that that much of the Stormy Daniels stuff was a political hoax. Again those were his words.  And Ruddy is a member of Mar-a-Lago which is the private club where President Trump spent the weekend.  OK. So hearing the denial there but nothing from the president yet since this 60 Minutes interview. Let me shift gears a little bit because - as this story we are following that - there is a whole lot of change at the White House right now. I mean oftentimes you see staff and you know new faces but this seems to be  a lot.   Yes and I take you back to Christopher Ruddy who on ABC also said that he was expecting a shake-up this week. More - someone else to go and then he suggested it could be VA secretary David Shulkin. He is somebody who is been on the most-endangered watch list of the Trump administration. And just to give a sense of where we are we have had basically one really high-profile major departure every week for the last three weeks - economic adviser Gary Cohn Rex Tillerson the secretary of state. Last week it was H.R. McMaster the national security adviser. The president has said that he is trying to get his cabinet and his White House in a place where he likes it. We just do not know where that ends.  Where that place is...  Yeah.  ...And also looking at to see if his - is actually his policy changes - I mean in foreign policy and a lot of other stuff. What about his legal team? Because as the special counsel investigation goes on he is really shaking up who is advising him on the law.  Yeah so his legal team had been led by a man named John Dowd a veteran Washington lawyer. John Dowd resigned late last week. Shortly after it was announced that a man named Joe diGenova would be joining the legal team. Well now Joe diGenova is out before he ever really joined. And the president is citing conflicts of interest. There were problems related to diGenova's law firm with his wife. They represented - or she represented a couple of people who have been interviewed by Mueller's investigators.  All right. NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith. Tam thanks. We appreciate it.  You are welcome.   All right. Egyptians are going to the polls this morning in a presidential election.  Yes President Abdel Fattah el-Sissi wants a second term. El-Sissi is a former army general and he is pretty much guaranteed to win this election. And that is revealing a lot about life in Egypt right now.  Well let us go there. NPR's Jane Arraf has been I think at a polling station this morning. Hi Jane.  Hi David.  So what are you seeing? What does this election feel like?  Well you know this election will last three days 'ecause Egypt is such a huge country. There are more than 60 million registered voters potentially. So there was not a huge crush this morning but the polling station that I was at - and a lot of them are in schools - it was really very festive. People were coming with their kids. There were retired people. So after you vote you dip your finger in ink to indicate that you voted so you cannot vote again. A lot of people were dipping in two fingers and then raising them for a victory sign. I spoke to one of the people who had just voted - retired engineer Sami Sultan . And his view was that if you are a real Egyptian as he said you go out and vote.  This is the future. If we need to build the future we need to  for anybody. It is not just the citizen. Anybody love this country .  Does not sound like people have much doubt about who is going to win.   No that is absolutely true.  Well you mention the ink. And I mean I think about times we have brought that up before. And it has been really emotional watching people you know dip their fingers in that ink and say they are doing this democratic duty and voting. Is this a democratic election in Egypt?  Well that is a great question. And I think we all have a tendency to equate elections with democracy which is not necessarily the case. So just a tiny bit of background we have to remember that Sissi was a military general - an army general - who led a coup against the first democratically-elected president Mohamed Morsi. That was after protests against Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood. And then a year after that Sissi was elected. So now he is running for re-election. And the big controversy here is not so much the elections themselves although there is a little bit about that. It is about the lack of candidates. There is only one other candidate and he was a guy who entered the race at the very last minute because it was very clear that Sissi did not want this to be seen as a referendum. But in fact in many ways it is. He is asking for people to go out and vote as a mandate for the things that he wants to accomplish.  So I just - I think broadly about the Arab Spring. I mean it is been - what? - seven years now seen around the world as this big pro-democracy movement that brought down a longtime dictator I mean in Egypt. Is anyone saying that this does not feel right - to not have a more-open democratic election in Egypt right now?  Well here's the thing. There are a considerable number of people who are thinking that. And there are a considerable number of people who are saying that very quietly but it is dangerous now to express dissent directly. And in these elections as well one of the things we are not allowed to do when we go into these polling stations is to ask people who they voted for. So those who are opposed to this will probably stay away and they will probably express their protest very silently.  All right. NPR's Jane Arraf talking to us from Egypt on election day. Jane thanks a lot.  Thank you.  