 Today Representative Peter King of New York begins hearings on the radicalization of Muslims in America. This morning we are going to take a look at one area in which Muslim Americans feel they are unfairly stereotyped. It happens at border crossings. Border agents ask them about their religion where they pray and their political views. NPR's Dina Temple-Raston has the story.  Kathy Jamil is the principal of an Islamic School in Buffalo New York. Jamil is Muslim and she wears a headscarf. Because of where she lives she crosses into Canada and back frequently. And lately that is meant immigration officials peppering her with questions. She offered to show me what happens. So we went to Niagara Falls spent a few hours in Canada and then came back. We approached the U.S. border at Rainbow Bridge.  Hello.  Unidentified Man  How you doing?  Unidentified Man  You both U.S.?  Yes.  Yes.  He asked me to remove my sunglasses. And he peered into the car. I was wearing a headscarf and so was Kathy Jamil. He asked why we would been to Canada.  She is visiting so I figured I would take her over.  I said I was working on a story about a notorious murder involving two local Muslims. It had been the talk of Buffalo. He asked Jamil if she was related to the murderer.  Unidentified Man  Yeah?  Yeah so we were talking about well that issue.  The concern is that those quick assessments often seem driven by stereotypes. It is a common refrain.  Well I was returning from a brief vacation with my family over the winter break.  That is Samer Shehata a professor of Middle East Studies at Georgetown University. He ran into trouble at customs in Florida this past January. He was returning to the U.S. with his wife and son from a vacation in Cancun.  After she you know looked at our passports and did her computer work she asked us to follow her you know which was something I had not experienced before.  Shehata and his family were taken into a secondary screening room. Forty minutes ticked by. Shehata started worrying about missing his connecting flight.  And a few minutes afterwards I was summoned to speak to the supervisor of Homeland Security at the Fort Lauderdale Airport.  And what did he ask you?  Well it was not so much asking it was really an interrogation.  The agents asked Shehata about his parents. What he studied in college. Where he went to college. Shehata suggested the supervisor look up his resume on the Georgetown University Website. Then he says the interview took a bizarre turn.  After he asked me what I teach at Georgetown University and my response was Middle East politics he asked who is going to win?  Who is going to win? The Muslims or the Americans? The Israelis or the Palestinans? Shehata said he was not sure what the question meant. Finally after nearly two hours Shehata got his U.S. passport back.  And at the end at the end of the interview he told me that the reason I was summoned or taken for this security measures was because of my quote location of birth.  What does that mean?  I was born in Egypt and I think it was on that basis that they decided to interrogate me.  I do not know all the particulars of that particular case Dina to be honest with you.  That is Thomas Winkowski. He is in charge of field operations for U.S. Customs and Border Protection. I asked him if origin of birth was enough of a reason to pull someone out of the immigration line which is what happened to Professor Shehata.  Most likely just origin of birth without other factors probably not. The line that we do not cross is that we are improperly taking into consideration individuals' race and religion and the like. I mean to me that is a boundary that is the line.  That is the line but the line sometimes gets blurred. Customs and Border Protection agents will tell you that their job depends on flexibility on trusting their gut. They ask questions. A hint of deception gives them license to drill down. The question is when does discretion lead to abuse.  The difference here is between routine and non-routine questions.  Hina Shemsi is the executive director of the ACLU's National Security project. She says that the ACLU regularly receives complaints from Muslims who say they are asked inappropriate questions simply because of their religion.  We all agree that the government has an obligation to protect us and protect the borders and that it has the right to ask people questions about their identity to verify their citizenship and their legal status.  What the government cannot do she says is ask about religion absent some suspicion of wrongdoing. She says religious freedom is protected by the First Amendment. Lawrence Ho was asked about his religion anyway.  I am a resident of New Jersey I work in Edgewater as an operations manager for a shipping company and I have been Muslim for about five years.  Lawrence Ho is an ethnic Chinese. He has a Fu Manchu beard and is dressed in jeans and a hoodie. Agents stopped him at the border two years ago at the same bridge near Niagara Falls that Jamil and I had crossed. The agents started with routine questions.  But then out of nowhere they asked me when did you convert which I was taken aback because that had nothing to do with the reason why I felt I was there.  But you are Chinese so how would they possibly know that you had converted or you were Muslim?  I do not know and I think that is the reason why I was very taken aback. I do not really have a large beard or you know I do not really dress in typical I guess what you would call quote unquote Islamic garb.  It was not just the delay at the border that bothered Ho. There was an incident that he found particularly off-putting. One of the agents kept hitting the button on the key fob that made the car chirp and flash its headlights. It is the feature that helps you find a car in a parking lot.  When the customs and border protection was walking in another agent said why do you keep hitting that button and he said just to see if it will blow up.  I asked Assistant Commissioner Winkowski whether a joke about a bomb suggests that the guidelines at the border allow too much discretion.  My understanding is that that is an allegation and if that allegation is true I believe that is inappropriate. I understand the sensitivities here and I understand that at times we get into some areas that are very very sensitive and I can appreciate how they feel.  Professor Shehata of Georgetown explained how he felt.  For the first time in my life I felt that my you know status in the United States was tenuous even though I have lived in this country for you know decades since I was I think five or six years old.  Dina Temple-Raston NPR News.   This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News 