 Former Vice President Dick Cheney underwent a heart transplant yesterday. Now he is recovering at a hospital outside Washington. Cheney's had a history of heart problems and here to talk about this is NPR science correspondent Rob Stein. Good morning Rob.  Good morning Susan.  What do we know so far about this situation?  We do not have a lot of details. The hospital's been referring all the questions to Cheney's - former vice president's staff. And what they are saying is that he underwent the hospital yesterday and he is recovering in intensive care at the Inova Fairfax Hospital in Falls Church Virginia. He is in intensive care but that is pretty typical for somebody who is had a heart transplant.  Yeah. So he has had so many heart problems. Is it something like five heart attacks.  That is right. He had his first heart attack when he was 37 years old. He had four more since then. He underwent quadruple bypass surgery lots of other procedures. And then he had this little heart pump implanted in his chest in 2010 which has been keeping him alive ever since.  This is a man who is 71 years old and that really does seem to be an advanced age for a procedure as complicated as this. So how unusual is it for somebody who is 70-plus to get a transplant?  Right right. Most transplant centers will only do heart transplants on somebody who is 65 years old or younger. So it is somewhat unusual. But there are a number of transplant centers around the country that are willing to do it. And it is becoming more common as the procedure's gotten better and as the population has been aging. More and more baby boomers are getting to the age where they might need transplants. And there are about 2000 transplants done each year. Maybe a few hundred of them are people over the age of 65.  You know here's a question that naturally occurs because donated organs for transplants are very scarce. So the vice president's transplant could really raise some questions about preferential treatment whether he got any special treatment. How are recipients heart transplant recipients chosen?  Right yeah. There is an ethical debate about this about whether how wise it is to do heart transplants of somebody of this age 'ecause as you said they are scarce. Hearts are hard to come by so there is some discussion about whether they should be better off putting them into younger people. But the way it works is there is this complicated system in which basically you try to match the people's body size and also their blood type. And once they get beyond that it goes to the sickest person who is the closest to where the donor came from.  Wow. And what about waiting lists in this area?  Yeah the waiting list the waiting time varies around the country. In the Washington area it is about nine months on average. And the vice president the former vice president's aide said he waited about 20 months.  Yeah. So briefly what is the outlook for the former vice president? What can he expect?  Yeah it is going to be a long haul. The next couple of months are going to be really tough and then he is going to be in the hospital for at least several weeks if not more than that. And then he is got a long recovery. Plus you know he is at risk for infections and rejection is the biggest concern.  Um-hum. But if it is successful he could go another how many years?  Yeah yeah. A lot of transplant patients get 10 15 years out of a new heart.  Thanks very much. Rob Stein NPR science and health correspondent.  Thanks for having me. 