 This is kind of extraordinary. A paralyzed man has regained the use of his arm and hand using a device that decodes his thoughts. NPR's Jon Hamilton reports on the technology here. It enables basic tasks like holding a coffee mug.  Bill Kochevar was in his 40s when he was paralyzed in a bicycle accident. And for the next eight years he was unable to move any part of his body below his shoulders. The damage to his spine meant signals from his brain had no way to reach those distant muscles. Then researchers in Cleveland were able to create a new connection between Kochevar's brain and his right arm and hand.   Well it was amazing because I thought about moving my arm and it did. I can move it in and out up and down.  Kochevar talked about his experience in a video made by Case Western Reserve University. He says regaining the use of his arm and hand allowed him to do simple things without help.   I ate a pretzel. I drank water.  He even found a way to scratch his nose. The research that made all this possible is the work of Case Western the Cleveland VA Medical Center and University Hospital's Cleveland Medical Center. It is part of a larger federally funded effort known as BrainGate. Robert Kirsch of Case Western says the system relies on electrodes in Kochevar's brain. They detect signals coming from areas he once used to control his hand and arm.  We record the signals from those areas and we have an algorithm that then sort of transforms those neural signals into intended movements the movements that he intended to make.  But movement requires muscles so the system sends electrical signals directly to the appropriate muscles in Kochevar's arm. The upshot is he can extend his arm and grab things with his hand. Kirsch says this sort of technology which took more than a decade to develop is still in its early stages.  I think what we have done though is shown that we can put this all together and it is feasible. We can actually record signals from his brain determine what he is trying to do and make that happen.  For Kochevar who spent eight years unable to move his hand that is a big deal.   I am still wowed every time I do something amazing.  The research on Kochevar appears in the journal The Lancet. Jon Hamilton NPR News.  