 The NCAA women's basketball tournament starts this weekend. UConn University of Connecticut Huskies are the most decorated women's college basketball team of all time but it is been five years since they have won the title. Enter Paige Bueckers. Connecticut Public Radio's Frankie Graziano has this look at the freshman phenom.  As a kid Paige Bueckers used to go to WNBA games in her home state of Minnesota to cheer on Maya Moore who also played college ball at UConn.   That is really why I came here to - 'ecause they get pushed to be the best.  Bueckers is pretty good at basketball herself. She played high school ball when she was still in eighth grade. Her old coach Brian Cosgriff recalls a conversation he had with Bueckers after she came off the bench in a state tournament game and lit up her opponents with eight 3-point buckets.  Paige if you could pick one school that you want to go to to be great where would you go? She goes UConn.  Bueckers' career took off. She was America's best high school senior and USA Basketball's Female Athlete of the Year. She even appeared on the cover of Slam magazine. Even with those accolades her high school coach never knew she would be this good.  She is just blown up and exceeded my expectations. That is for sure.  Bueckers is blowing up because she is shooting the ball more and not being the pass-first player she says she is used to being.   Back to Bueckers who will let it fly.   The magic of Paige Bueckers.  Three 30-point games in a row including a big overtime victory in February against then-top-ranked South Carolina solidified her superstar status. That is around the time she took the leadership role famed UConn coach Geno Auriemma had been asking her to take.   Coach had put it into my head when I was a senior in high school about how he needed me to come in and be a leader right away.  Her leadership shows on the court and on the stat sheet. She is first on the team in points assists and steals. Now Bueckers has a shot at being the first-ever freshman to win national player of the year in the 43 years it is been handed out. Auriemma says composure is what makes Bueckers so special.   If Paige had a different mindset and she had a different temperament and still had all the skills that she has it may not work.  Cosgriff Bueckers' high school coach says nothing fazes her - except when she is pulled from the game.  She hates coming out. I mean she just does.  She really does not like it.   I am just a competitor. I always love to play no matter if we are down 50 or if we are up 50.  Bueckers and her teammates now get to play for a big prize an NCAA title. The Huskies' road to the Final Four begins Sunday when they take on High Point University. For NPR News I am Frankie Graziano in Glastonbury Conn.  