 Health care will not be the only controversial issue in the capital this weekend. Thousands of activists are expected to rally in Washington for an overhaul of immigration laws. Arizona has some of the toughest laws in the nation targeting illegal immigrants. Churches and advocacy groups there are sending delegates to Washington to march for change at the federal level. Peter O'Down of member station KJZZ in Phoenix reports. PETER O' Early tomorrow morning Alicia Contreras will arrive in Washington for the first time. This will be the biggest rally of her life. The 26-year-old Contreras who is a student social worker says she scared excited and hopeful. Ms.  To be standing step-by-step with people at the Lincoln Memorial and just be there - and you know what? Wow. I have never met you and we are Americans and we are here working for the same cause. O' That cause is comprehensive immigration reform. For Contreras it means a path to citizenship for the 10 million or so undocumented people living in the United States. Contreras works part-time to keep at-risk kids out of gangs and off drugs. Many of those kids she says are from illegal immigrant families. She is going to Washington for them. Mr.  I want them to go to college. I want them to work for themselves. And when they tell me you know what no - for what Alicia? You dont live my life. You dont feel what I do. You do not have the world of do not's or cannot's. Reverend  This is not about open borders or amnesty or screaming at one another and all these debates that weve been having for such a long time. O' Ian Danley is a youth pastor in Phoenix. Come Sunday he will be in Washington too. Rev.  This is about solutions that is good for Arizona that is good for America. O' Of course what is good for America is up for debate especially in this state. Republican State Senator Russell Pearce takes pride in Arizona's reputation as one of the most unwelcoming spots for undocumented workers in the U.S. Representative  And there is no doubt about it. O' Pearce will not be joining the marchers. He wants a different type of reform. He is gathering support for a law that would make it a crime for illegal immigrants to solicit work in public. Two years ago one of his most controversial bills began putting sanctions on business owners who knowingly hire undocumented workers. Pearce says stronger laws make Arizona a safer place. A lot of voters here agree with him. He describes the activists at this weekend's rally in Washington as promoters of anarchy. Rep.  These folks who march in complete disrespect for the law have no regard for the victims of crime and the damage and the cost to America. Shame on them. Shame on them. They are as un-American and as treasonous as anybody I know. O' For they are part the marchers say they are just trying to reach consensus on this inflammatory issue. And for those who cannot make the trip east there is an option closer to home.  Unidentified Woman  Hello. Unidentified Woman  Is Ali available? Unidentified Man  O' By Sunday afternoon the volunteers at this phone bank say theyll bring a little slice of the nation's capital to Arizona. To do that these local members of Reform Immigration for America are plowing through a list of 900 names. Each person will be invited to a rally near downtown Phoenix. Unidentified Woman  Hopefully you will come. You will bring your family as well as all of your friends and neighbors.  Mr.  Hello. Hey David how you doing? O' Volunteer Jeff Zetino says he is holding his political leaders accountable. The point of this weekend both here and in Washington is to let state and federal lawmakers know their constituents are ready for change. Mr.  The winds of Washington they flip on a dime and I am not a tealeaf reader. I am not a truth-sayer. I am just here doing my work making sure that my efforts are going to be felt. O' The question is Will they be listening? This weekend Congress is focusing on a health care overhaul bill an issue that is just as large time-consuming and controversial. For NPR News I am Peter O'Dowd. 