 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. Good morning. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am David Greene. Stanley Fischer used to be head Israel's Central Bank and he was once second in command at the International Monetary Fund. Barring the unexpected he will soon be confirmed as vice-chair of the U.S. Federal Reserve. President Obama nominated him for that post. And today he will go before the Senate Banking Committee. NPR's John Ydstie has more on Fischer whose influence on global economic policy might be unmatched.  Fischer's influence has its roots in the 1970s when he was an economics professor at MIT. The list of budding economists he influenced as a dissertation advisor is impressive and includes Ben Bernanke former Fed chairman and Mario Drahgi the current head of the EU's Central Bank. Fischer also mentored Greg Mankiw former top economist for George W. Bush and now head of Harvard's economics department.  There is a lot of competition and some enmity among economists but I cannot think of anybody who does not like Stan.  But Fischer did not just launch his students to the top he has impressive real world credentials of his own. His policies at the Bank of Israel helped that country avoid a deep recession after the global financial crisis. At the IMF Fischer helped contain the Mexican bond crisis and a run on Asian currencies avoiding  global meltdowns. Again Greg Mankiw.  And I think if there is ever a major international monetary crisis he would be the person that everybody would look to for counsel. He is extremely levelheaded extremely open-minded. He is very good at trying to understand different points of view.  The vice-chair of the Fed traditionally manages the Fed's international relationships. But in a Bloomberg News interview last summer Fischer said Fed policy must be focused on the U.S. economy.  You cannot expect the Fed whose mandate is about the United States economy to worry about the rest of the world too much except to the extent that it affects the United States.  Fischer is a U.S. citizen though he was born in Northern Rhodesia which is now Zambia. He also holds Israeli citizenship. Despite Fischer's accomplishments Greg Mankiw says he does not expect a power struggle between Fischer and the new Fed chair Janet Yellen.  He is very easygoing very serious but does not take himself excessively seriously. He takes his work seriously.  In fact Yellen reached out to Fischer and encouraged him to take the Fed's number two job. He is widely expected to be confirmed. John Ydstie NPR News. 