 And next week a new group of musicians will be inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. We are taking a look at the five very different performers who will be inducted. Today we will hear about a session player who got bored and created a mysterious stage character dressed in feathers and beads. David C. Barnett of member station WCPN reports on the making of Dr. John. DAVID C.  The recording studio was crammed with musicians some of the best players in Los Angeles gathered to provide a wall of sound behind Sonny  Cher.  SONNY    Little man when you stand by my side that I know I do not have to hide from anyone...  Behind the tall woman and the little man were multiple guitarists horns and keyboard players. Among that last group was a 26-year-old pianist from New Orleans named Mac Rebennack and he was not too happy with the assignment. Dr.  To get all these keyboard players and they were all good players playing blink-um blink-um blink-um blink-um blink-um arpeggios together it is not very hip. And it is not very funky. And it does not make me want to dance.  And Mac Rebennack knew funky. He had studied at the feet of New Orleans legends like Professor Longhair.   But Rebennack had been busted for drugs one too many times and the authorities refused to let him return home after rehab. So he went to L.A. where there was plenty of mind-numbing session work. To escape he started thinking back to New Orleans and a story he had heard about a 19th century medicine man revered by the poor and feared by the well-to-do. His name was said to be John Montaigne more commonly known as Dr. John.  Dr.   They call me Dr. John known as the Night Tripper. A satchel of Gris-Gris is in my hand  In 1969 Mac Rebennack released a thematic album called Gris-Gris based on the Dr. John character. The record was a mixture of rhythm and blues jazz and voodoo chants in a Creole dialect. Soundbite of song Gris-Gris Gumbo Ya Ya  Gris-gris gumbo ya ya...  It was recorded quickly by a group of expatriate New Orleans musicians during leftover Sonny  Cher studio time. For Rebennack the hardest part was stepping out in front to do the lead vocals. Dr.  See I do not know nothing about singing. I never wanted to be a frontman. Frontmen had big egos and was crazy and aggravating. I just never thought that was a good idea.  But no one else wanted to do it either so Rebennack reluctantly became Dr. John.  Dr.   Walk on pins and needles see what they can do. Walk on gilded splinters with the king of the Zulu. Sing about the kon kuddy kunay kon kon walk on gilded splinters...  When he started touring friends from New Orleans' Mardi Gras Indians provided him with elaborate costumes festooned with feathers and intricate beadwork. Rebennack says his goal was to preserve and promote a cultural legacy that was dying off but the mysterious music of Dr. John connected with psychedelic rockers. Dr.  We got some gigs playing at a love-in or a be-in or some kind of in.   'Ti Alberta 'ti Alberta 'ti Alberta 'ti Alberta 'ti Alberta then kon...  Since then Dr. John's wardrobe has been scaled back to a snake-headed walking stick and some voodoo beads and the music is straight-up funky New Orleans.   But he is kept the name that he took from that ancient medicine man. DR.  Listen Doc has been my name all my life. And John is my middle name. I am proud of all of my names Malcolm John Michael Creaux Rebennack. And Junior add that to it.  And the formerly reluctant lead vocalist has settled into his role as Dr. John. DR.  Yes.  DR.  That is the tricknology of life.  For NPR News I am David C. Barnett in Cleveland.   This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Ari Shapiro.  And I am Renee Montagne. 