 The coronavirus outbreak in the United States is changing the way we live. Five states and the District of Columbia are closing all schools K-12. And parents are left to figure out what to do about child care. NPR's Cory Turner is following all of this closely. Good morning Cory.  Good morning Noel.  So where are these statewide closures and why are they happening now?  Yes. So we are talking about Maryland Michigan New Mexico Ohio and Oregon - all announced statewide closures for the coming weeks. As for why now Maryland Governor Larry Hogan suggested yesterday that the turning point for him was the state's first case of what is known as community transmission of COVID-19. That means the person who is infected had no known exposure from previous travel or from someone previously known to be infected. And I want to play one moment here from Governor Hogan's speech yesterday where he really seemed to anticipate the criticism of some folks in his state who might think maybe he was overreacting.   For Marylanders the actions that I have announced here today will be disruptive to your everyday lives. And they may sound extreme. And they may sound frightening. But they could be the difference in saving lives and helping keep people safe.  Now I have heard from researchers Noel who say this moment - this community transmission - is a really dangerous tipping point for a community and that closing schools really is one of the most effective tools that we have to slow the spread of a contagion. Ohio Governor Mike DeWine said public and private schools in his state would close for three weeks. That is one week longer than in Maryland. He also said the state had confirmed the infection of a man who had no travel history outside of Ohio. DeWine said on Twitter that closing schools would hopefully keep the state's hospitals and clinics from having to ration limited resources. He said quote We do not want our health care providers to have to make the decision of who lives and who dies. And also as we said late yesterday Michigan Oregon New Mexico followed suit. And it would not surprise me to hear from other states in the near future.  And then you have places where it is not the entire state that is closing but school districts are closing - right? - significantly large school districts.  Yeah absolutely. And also I should mention that the governor of Kentucky - while they did not officially close schools statewide he issued what he called a significant recommendation that schools close. Yeah I really feel like we are at an inflection point Noel. I mean when I went to bed last night there were just two states that announced closures. And now we have got five - if you count Kentucky six - plus as you said big cities. Seattle Public Schools closed earlier this week. San Francisco schools announced they will be closing. So it is really been a big 48 hours.  Is there any kind of argument against closing schools saying this is just not a good idea?  Yeah. There is actually. I have spent the last couple days on the phone with school leaders all over the country who tell me you know look. There are very real public health concerns to closing schools because they know they will be sending kids home many of them to households where there will not be any parents because parents cannot take off of work. They will not be able to work from home. Also it is really important to keep in mind that more than 20 million kids in this country depend on schools for free breakfast free lunch free snacks. And in some cases I have been in schools where they offer free dinner. And I know from talking with school leaders this is for many the chief consideration right now - is how are we going to continue feeding these kids if we do not have our schools open?  And I guess the big question of course is whether lawmakers can think of anything to to help solve that problem. NPR education correspondent Cory Turner. Thanks Cory.  Thank you Noel. 