 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Liane Hansen. This week the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front or FMLN won the presidential election in El Salvador. The former Marxist rebels who fought a guerilla war from 1980 to 1992 are the first leftist party to come to power in the country's history. The FMLN is a coalition of left-wing groups but it is dominated by the Communist Party. One of the biggest questions after the FMLN victory is how far to the left the president-elect Mauricio Funes will move El Salvador. NPR's Jason Beaubien reports.   El Salvador at times appears to be stuck in the Cold War. As supporters of the FMLN celebrated their electoral victory the streets of San Salvador filled with people in red T-shirts waving red FMLN flags. Meanwhile the anthem for the ARENA Party which has held power for the last 20 years is about stomping out the Communists.   The ARENA theme song declares that El Salvador will be the tomb where the Reds are wiped out. The Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front took up arms in 1980 against the government over the huge and seemingly intractable disparities in wealth in El Salvador. The Reagan administration jumped into the Cold War conflict spending billions of dollars to fight the Marxist guerillas while Cuba and other communist states backed the FMLN. In the just-completed election campaign ARENA continued to paint the political landscape in El Salvador as one that pits freedom against communism. One of their primary slogans was Libertad si Comunismo no. Raymundo Calderon Moran the chair of the humanities department at the University of San Salvador says the Communist Party has deep roots in the country. Mr.    The Communist Party he says has always tried to influence Salvadoran society and politics. Mr.    The majority of the urban unions Calderon adds were founded by the Communist Party. And thus the Communists remain the most significant power brokers among the political left in El Salvador. The president-elect Mauricio Funes however does not come from the communist wing of the FMLN nor does he come from the ranks of the former guerillas. Calderon Moran says Mauricio Funes ran on the FMLN ticket in a marriage of convenience. Mr.    The FMLN needs Mauricio Calderon Moran says just as Mauricio needs the FMLN. Amidst the dyed-in-the-wool Marxists of the FMLN Funes who is a former journalist is way off to the right yet to ARENA he is considered way off to the left. During the campaign Funes deliberately kept his distance from Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez and other left-wing leaders. Despite this some conservatives in the U.S. warned that a win by the FMLN in this tiny country of 7 million people would be disastrous for the continent. Republican Congressman Dana Rohrabacher called the FMLN a proterrorist left-wing ally of Iran and al-Qaida and threatened to cut off remittances from Salvadorans working the States if Funes won.   At a small cafeteria in San Salvador pork chops tomatoes and onions are sizzling on the grill. Twenty-three-year-old Yohan Danier Enriquez works as a busboy in the restaurant. He lost both his parents as a teenager and his brother who works in the kitchen of a casino in Las Vegas has been supporting him ever since. Mr.    Remittances sustain Salvadoran families he says. People depend on them. There are not many other sources of income for people here. Danier Enriquez earns 150 a month working full time in this restaurant. His brother working in Las Vegas sends him another 400 a month which allows him to pay for night school. Mr.    He says the money from his brother pays his tuition his utilities his rent. Cash sent home to El Salvador from migrants working almost exclusively in the U.S. rivals exports as the country's largest source of revenue. Danier Enriquez says he does not expect Funes to swing the country to the far left but he says he does worry that the U.S. might try to block money flowing South. Rohrabacher and several other congressional representatives have stated that such a cut of remittances is inevitable as a result of the FMLN victory. The State Department however has taken a different position and was even running ads in San Salvador ahead of the election stating that the Obama administration would support whoever wins the contest. Jason Beaubien NPR News. 