 The COVID relief package passed recently by Congress extends payments for the unemployed. People get an extra 300 per week until September - welcome news for those out of work and also for criminals. Last year identity thieves stole billions in unemployment relief and the added money in the system adds to the risk of fraud. Here's NPR's Martin Kaste.  The scale of last year's fraud was mind-blowing. The estimates of total losses start at 63 billion. California alone lost at least 11 billion. During the early weeks of COVID relief Washington state was one of the first to realize that it had been sending hundreds of millions of dollars out the door to identity thieves. Suzi LeVine was the state's employment security commissioner at the time.  They came with millions of profiles on Americans that they had captured over years from data breaches lying in wait for this moment. There was a crisis an enormous amount of money and a need to get that money out quickly.  So one year into the pandemic is this kind of fraud still happening?  It is not nearly to the volume at the very beginning you know March April May of last year but it is still very steady.  Crane Hassold is with a cybersecurity company called Agari which tracks the foreign gangs that are behind a lot of this. The gangs pass around cheat sheets for duping various state unemployment systems and they rate the states like so many hot slot machines.  Unfortunately most of the states are still being shown as paying out at least some of the time.  And the gangs also keep a close eye on the news.  A lot of the chatter in the scamming communities today is about the new round of stimulus that is coming out and how essentially that is going to be another you know free for all.  The main explanation you hear for all the fraud last year was the rush to get money to people fast as the pandemic took hold. And states suddenly had to start paying benefits to freelancers and gig workers people who do not have former bosses who you can reach out to to verify their claims. Tom Costa is with the General Accounting Office.  The states and the Department of Labor were basically in a situation where they had to you know build the car while they were making it run and repairing it as they went along the way.  But that is not the whole story. Long before were problems. The Labor Department's inspector general has been sounding the alarm for years about improper payments often 10 or more of total benefits paid out. Former DOL official Dale Ziegler says the system has been chronically understaffed especially when it comes to people with experience detecting fraud.  You do not pull a person off the street and hire them and put them in a chair and expect them to be able to do this work overnight. It does not happen.  The federal government did kick in some extra money for fraud prevention last summer and some states have been shoring up their defenses with new technology for instance this service called ID.me which simulates an in-person check of a photo ID.   You will be asked to look at the colors on your phone screen while ID.me takes a short selfie video to verify that you are really you.  Some states are also starting to share more information with each other about say which Social Security numbers are being used for fraud. But Rob Eleveld thinks they could do more. He runs Ekata a company that helps e-commerce companies to identify their customers. He says unemployment agencies should be asking more subtle questions about the new applicants for benefits such as how new is this person's email address or where is the IP address of this computer?  Where is it relative to Martin's physical address? Oh it is three states away. Probabilistically is that more likely to be risky or not? Yes.  But even with the new tech tools there is a deeper problem. Our unemployment system is fundamentally decentralized. Each state does security its own way and the online gangs always seek out the weakest link. Suzi LeVine the former Washington state employment security commissioner now helps to run the national system for the Labor Department.  What we have had over this past year has been leaving the states individually to fight it on their own with 53 different solutions across states and territories. I do think that each of those is more prepared now. However it is time now to also have a more national approach.  Whether that'ill happen is unclear because there are some deep political reasons for this decentralization. States prefer to keep control over how easy or tough it is for their constituents to get unemployment benefits. But on the other hand the federal government now has a growing interest in a more united front on security as it keeps pumping more of its money into the system. Martin Kaste NPR News.  