 Journalist Anne Garrels had a problem. She was covering Russia years ago. She wanted to understand what was happening beyond the swiftly changing capital city Moscow. So she took out a map and chose a city at random.  It could be anywhere. And I basically just threw a pencil at the map and it hit Chelyabinsk 20-odd years ago. And I have been going there ever since.  That is how she began her long relationship with the city of Chelyabinsk. If you have never heard of it that is the point. Garrels who was an NPR correspondent for years says she wanted to get beyond the daily news. She writes of that city in a book called Putin Country.  Putin country is sort of like middle America hard-core industrial and the area of the rest of the country apart from Moscow.  And the kind of place where President Vladimir Putin is popular. Chelyabinsk turns out to reveal a lot about a country the U.S. constantly confronts on the world stage. The city's industries grew during World War II. Entire factories were moved to that remote region to get the machinery away from invading Germans. Russian nuclear installations grew up nearby. By the time Anne Garrels arrived in the 1990s that city was suffering. The Soviet Union had collapsed and with it much of Russia's economy and government. In the 2000s Garrels says President Vladimir Putin captured local people's imaginations.  He played on this search for identity - search for Russian pride - which had disappeared. And he did it very cleverly.  What do you mean by Russian identity or Russian pride and playing on that?  Well the last time Russia was Russia was 1917. And when the Soviet Union broke apart suddenly Russia was a country on its own again. And so they - they did not know who they were. They did not know where they fit into the world. And they also felt pressured. They could see NATO moving up to their borders. They were not allowed to be a member of NATO. Although the West would say hey wait a minute you know we invited the Russians to be - have an observer role and have a say. But they did not really have a say.  Did people in Chelyabinsk - this rather remote kind of middle-Russia kind of place - did they really care about foreign policy and whether Russia had a grand role in the world or a diminished role in the world?  Yes. I mean it is not so unlike the appeal that Donald Trump has by telling American - middle Americans we will be great again. And so they may not have necessarily paid attention to the details. But they got the message that Putin was going to stand up to the West and make Russia great again.  So Putin rode a wave of high oil prices. There was a time when oil was going for more than a hundred dollars a barrel. What has happened in the last few years as the price of oil has dropped again to this Russian city?  It is been very dramatic. There are for-rent signs all over the place. Stores are closing restaurants. Foreign brands are no longer opening branches as they had been. Most of my friends their income has dropped by easily 30 percent if not more. But that has not created a burst of opposition against Putin and his policies.  Why not?  That is a very good question. Partially they think well Western sanctions are going to make us finally develop our own industries our own agriculture our own food production. And this is going to take time but this is good for us. The other part is that I mean as much of a dictator in many ways as Putin has become there are people who are even more draconian who are waiting in the wings possibly.  What is it like these days to be a critic or opponent of Vladimir Putin?  One friend of mine who I call L because she was afraid of using her name - to start with in the beginning when we first met she was not afraid but then as the years went by asked me please not to - she sort of describes being back in the Soviet days where she has frank discussions in her own kitchen but does not express her views publicly.  So people have had to become more and more restrained?  Completely. But it is a very selective problem. I mean the Internet for all intents and purposes is still pretty lively. But increasingly - and this is just beginning to happen now - Putin - before Putin's people would go after major figures who might be a threat. But now they are using very vague extremism laws to go after for instance one ordinary Russian who simply said God does not exist on the Internet. And he is now being prosecuted. So you have got this selective intimidation which has wide-ranging ripples.  In a place like this what does the rule of law mean - that phrase the rule of law?  It is highly capricious and basically means very little. Judges are totally under the control of the political authorities. And while they might be fair in certain cases if the political authorities want the case to go forward it will go forward.  So I want to make sure I understand this. The Russian state quasi-collapsed in the '90s. There was massive corruption things being stolen left and right. People were very frustrated and were suffering. It sounds like that kind of corruption has continued right on through the Putin era.  Completely.  Do you ever ask people if they blame Putin for that?  Of course I do. And they just kind of shrug their shoulders and say you know there is nothing he can do about it. And then I say but wait a minute. It is not that he is an innocent in all of this. And they just once again shrug their shoulders. It is - they complain about it all the time. But it has not yet affected his popularity which is at record-high.  So what do you think that American policymakers need to know need to understand about Vladimir Putin when they try to deal with this figure on the world stage?  Well one of the reasons I did the book was to go back and look at maybe what mistakes we may have made along the way that helped create a Putin by sort of dismissing Russia as a loser and by not acknowledging that it really might have a say in some things - and I think trying to understand that Russia is wounded and is licking its wounds.  Are you saying we should look at this big. dangerous country as actually a quite weak country - insecure?  Yes in large part - I mean it can certainly interfere as we have seen in Syria. But I think understanding that it is a wounded country is key.  Anne Garrels is the author of the new book Putin Country. Thanks very much.  Thank you. 