 Great artists are known to have big egos. They can suck up all the air in a room if given half a chance. And living in the shadow of such greatness can stunt a person's growth. That is what happens to the protagonist in the new novel The Italian Teacher from writer Tom Rachman. NPR's Lynn Neary has the story.  Tom Rachman always wanted to be a writer but he thought he needed to experience more of the world before immersing himself in fiction. So he became a journalist. He had a good run but his heart was never really in it. After several years Rachman was on his way to a much-needed vacation when he got an urgent phone call.  All of a sudden my cellphone rang. And the bureau chief said you know bombs gone off in this and this country. And we need to get you back here and fly there immediately. And my first thought was just complete dejection. I thought no. I do not want to go. In that moment I thought I am not a journalist.  Rachman borrowed from his life as a journalist for his debut novel The Imperfectionists. It was a sad but often humorous look at the lives of the people who worked at a dying newspaper in Rome. In his third novel The Italian Teacher Rachman takes on the art world.  I was always fascinated with the arts and with artists in all different forms of it. What is it that artists do all day? What is the nature of creativity? How do they come up with these ideas? Do they have a separate sort of vision? Are they people who deserve to have different rules than the rest of us?  The famous artist at the center of Rachman's story is Bear Bavinsky.  Bear Bavinsky is a painter of huge impassioned expressionistic paintings. He is a charming devil-may-care man. He is also a big brawny irresponsible man. And he is a man who demands that he be the center of everything.  The novel opens in Rome where Bavinsky lives with his then-wife Natalie and their 5-year-old son Pinch. Natalie is also an artist though no one including Bear seems to take her work in ceramics very seriously. Instead she and Pinch live their lives waiting for the moment when Bear gives them his attention.   When Bear returns Natalie transforms striving to mirror his mood. If he battled a painting at the studio he enters in silence a quiet that exudes across the apartment. On the other hand if he completed a work he marches in with a holler of where you reptiles at? Does not matter what time or who is sleeping. And he is right. They prefer to be awake for this.  Eventually Bear moves away remarries and starts a new family one of several he has scattered around the world. Pinch is left alone with his mother whose highs and lows become increasingly extreme. As a teenager he begins to paint encouraged by his mother while yearning for his father's blessing.  He idealizes his father and sees him as this potent charming and widely recognized star of the arts. And he sees his mother struggling at the margins and his terror is that he is ultimately more her than him. So part of the journey of Pinch in this book is him figuring out exactly who he is and why he is trying to do art and what his ultimate purpose is.  One discouraging comment from his father and Pinch leaves his painting behind. Nothing seems to pan out for him. After college the promise of true love and an academic career falls through. He ends up a lonely at times comic figure teaching Italian at a language school in London.   When everyone has left he strolls the corridors as if they were his humming muttering foreign phrases sometimes even popping into the women staff toilets simply because you are not supposed to. He thrills at these unseen shows of nonconformity.  Pinch becomes a kind of personal assistant to his father. It is from this position that Pinch finds a way to redeem his lost chances. He begins painting again in secret. The nature of these paintings is not revealed until the end when it becomes clear that Pinch has fashioned a kind of sweet revenge against his father. Throughout the book Rachman manages to grace Pinch's story with a touch of wry humor.  The funniest books are always very sad and the saddest books are always funny for me. I think that there are an awful lot of tragic situations sadness and insoluble pain that people go through. And yet there has to be humor to manage it and I think that is something that I try to infuse my books with.  Readers may flinch at times as Pinch tries and fails again and again at the game of life. But in the end it is hard not to smile as his clever winning gambit is revealed. Lynn Neary NPR News. Washington. 