 Many of the Westerns churned out in the 1960s and '70s did not come from Hollywood but from Europe. Lauren Frayer finds out what happened to the old film sets and to the actors of yesteryear's spaghetti Westerns.   If this sounds like a Hollywood Western that is because it once was. The signs here say Texas the Yellow Rose Saloon the First City Bank - but I am standing in the middle of the Tabernas Desert in southeast Spain surrounded by old film sets built by Sergio Leone the Italian master of spaghetti westerns. Hundreds were filmed here in the 1960s and 70s.   Clint Eastwood hits like The Good the Bad and the Ugly and A Fistful of Dollars. Now it is a theme park where tourists can stroll through a saloon...    ...spend time behind bars in a local jail and reenact a shoot-out in the town square.   It looks quite authentic like the Wild West like Arizona a little bit.  My husband has always watched them yeah so John Wayne's always around and Clint Eastwood.  That is tourists Shadae Talebi from California and Angela Thorogood from England. Many of the workers here are aging stuntmen who assisted Clint Eastwood back in the day and now perform at children's birthday parties. The same people get shot every day says actor Jose Francisco Garcia Pascual.  Because this is very very very hard work.  Yeah I can imagine. You are killing people every day.  Yeah every day I kill yeah three four persons per day.    In a tiny Spanish village nearby elderly men trade tales of their glory days in the golden age of Westerns.    This was considered the Spanish Hollywood says Jesus Laguna a former stuntman who still wears a cowboy hat. All types of actors came through here - American Oscar winners they were all here. But not anymore. A Spanish photographer Alvaro Deprit recently spent a month living in this desert documenting the lives of those left behind.    It is a melancholy feeling he says because their world is finished. It was the golden age of Western films and now it is an imitation of what it once was. Those left behind here include a member of the Blackfoot Indian Nation who once worked as a film extra. And a local Jose Novo who looks just like the late Henry Fonda. Novo says his mother was friendly with the actor and he was born exactly nine months after Fonda was here in 1968 shooting Once Upon a Time in the West.   For NPR News I am Lauren Frayer in the Tabernas Desert in Almeria Spain.  This is NPR News. 