 The Japanese director Hirokazu Kore-eda builds his films on small events observed in great detail. They have won numerous awards both critical and popular around the world. His latest film has won five stars on Rotten Tomatoes. It is called After The Storm and it is just opening in theaters around the country. Howie Movshovitz of member station KUNC has more.  For almost three decades Hirokazu Kore-eda has focused his lens primarily on the family and how families handle the kinds of things that can happen to families. In After The Storm a grandfather has died and the adult son is grappling with divorce.   In that family many things have been lost so you have a choice. Are you going to cry? Are you going to accept? Are you going to carry on? For example the grandmother lost the grandfather. The son lost a father. The wife is being lost. And so there is all these pieces that have been lost along the way. How do you fill that gap and then go on?  What I love about this film as with many of his films is that by the end you feel almost that not much has happened and yet a lot has happened.  Justin Chang as a film critic for The Los Angeles Times.  In a way that is kind of just like real life - the way it sort of catches us off guard not through any huge momentous shifts in events but just through kind of the everyday flow of lived experience.  Like a lot of parents the widowed grandmother is critical of her son a once successful writer now divorced and working in a dead-end job. She compares him to a plant that never blooms.    .   .  The filmmaker says After The Storm is in some ways autobiographical.   I would say that my mother was like that but now that I think about it maybe that is why women of that generation love it so much. She says all the things that they could not say to their sons.  He adds that from the beginning he wanted his characters to be flawed.   In this movie all the characters - in a sense they did not become the adults that they should have been.  Kore-eda reinforces this idea with a characteristically subtle image of the place where the grandmother lives.   The housing complex itself did not achieve the dreams that it was meant to be. When it was first built the idea was that families would come in. They would have small children. Their lives would improve and they would move out into single houses. And then more families would come on but that never happened. In the end the people that lived there continue to live there. The children grew up and moved away and now everybody living in these housing complexes are old.  Yet the younger characters keep coming back. They are drawn together by a typhoon the storm the film's title.    .   .  After The Storm is not unrelenting sadness says film critic Justin Chang. He points out that there is a kind of gentle humor to Kore-eda's films.  And sometimes it is poised right on the edge. You do not know whether to kind of laugh gently or sort of cry gently.  But the filmmaker's also tough.  Where I think the gentleness comes in is the way the director Kore-eda refuses to judge the characters. You do not - you do not feel like he is putting his characters through the ringer. Where the toughness comes in is I think his just willingness to be very honest about who they are.  Chang says After The Storm is an optimistic movie about a man who is tall physically but just does not feel that way until the very end. Writer and director Hirokazu Kore-eda...   He did physically grow up big but his heart did not follow. And throughout the movie you will notice that he is hunched over and kind of crunched over. And then at the very very end when he sits down that is the first time he straightens his back. And in my mind that was the movie.  It is a small gesture typical of the films of Hirokazu Kore-eda but it means a lot. For NPR News I am Howie Movshovitz. 