 One year later people driving around Oso Wash. still think about the mudslide that devastated their community. The slide killed 43 people and destroyed dozens of homes. Not one of the first responders to the mudslide was hurt although it is still on their minds. From member station KPLU in Seattle Bellamy Pailthorp.   Willie Harper is the chief of the all-volunteer Oso Fire Department. He does not like to drive on the recently reopened highway that was devastated in the mudslide but he will do it if pressed.  It is kind of a closed area and people are...  Harper says he knows now what soldiers mean when they talk about post-traumatic stress.  So as we are coming up on this last hill when I got the initial response I could not see anything and I thought it was just water in the road or a barn in the road and some minor flooding.  But it was much bigger - nearly a square mile gone.  And as I turned this last corner all I could see was a wall of mud and debris. And at that point I could not see beyond the piles of houses and really we could not even tell they were houses.  In the weeks and months following the landslide thousands of people from the outlying areas formed teams. Loggers brought in heavy equipment. The Red Cross and other groups organized volunteers and protected families from the throngs of media. The community pulled what it could from the mud. And Harper says anytime human remains were found the whole operation would stop and the search teams would remove their caps.  It became very solemn out here and very quiet. Even amongst all that machinery it all shut down and it was absolutely still and quiet.  It is still quiet now. Forty-three trees have been planted to pay tribute to the people who died. A retired construction worker stands between the barricades next to a street sign that says Steelhead Drive. The road goes nowhere now.  It is actually a much smaller hill than I was expecting.  Sixty-four-year-old Dan Kulencamp is looking out across the wreckage. He was last here years ago visiting a nephew who got out of the area before the disaster.  Oh. It is sad. It brings tears to your eyes. You think of the little baby - good people disappeared that fast.   A logging truck passes. The highway is reopened now.   Joel Johnson is the Oso Fire Department's chaplain. The mudslide was his first solo call. He is 26 years old and found himself counseling men and women twice his age working in the rubble.  Some people it just hit them like a ton of bricks. And you need to be there and help them maybe walk away off the - that area maybe back to base camp or something like that.  Johnson slept in a truck nearby the night of the slide even when there were evacuation orders. He is been practically living at the firehouse for the past year.  Some people were just overjoyed to have been able to find their loved one. They did not have to worry anymore. They did not have to wonder what was going on. So there was actually a sense of relief with that.  Also among the hundreds of volunteers who have stuck around is Kim Parsons whose close friend and co-worker was the only person driving on the road during the slide. She was found in a car. Parsons says with a 4-year-old daughter climbing on the couch near her that she is proud to have been part of the rescue.  Years from now it will be in history books. And a lot of people will not understand the impact that it had on the community or what it was like what it was like walking around out there and knowing that you are trying to help look for people or their personal items. It is just - it is something a lot of people will never experience.  This weekend thousands are expected to come out and pay their respects those who went through one of the most devastating mudslides in U.S. history. For NPR News I am Bellamy Pailthorp in Seattle. 