 Divorce is illegal in only two places in the world - Vatican City and the Philippines. And in the Philippines resistance may be fading. Here's Michael Sullivan.  After nine years of marriage to a philandering husband and suffocating in-laws Alpa Go threw in the towel. She wanted out for herself and her two children.   I just wanted to cut ties with him. If I ever achieve my goals I do not want to do it carrying his name. And if I acquire properties in the future I do not want to have to share it with him.  But with divorce illegal except for the 5 percent of the population that is Muslim the best she could hope for was an annulment which dissolves the marriage. But they are expensive and out of reach for many here. And the results - often arbitrary. Alpa Go spent about 5000 trying to get hers. She failed.   I filed it on the grounds of psychological incapacity but they said it was not enough.  Later some friends told her why - that the judge was not a fan of annulments. So Alpa Go gave up. Lawyer Clara Padilla the executive director of EnGendeRights has heard stories like this one and far worse about women routinely denied annulments by conservative judges.  Women even if they are in an abusive relationship where their husbands would batter them even if their husbands are drunkards or alcoholic or engage in extramarital affairs their wives are unable to dissolve the marriages.  But a bipartisan divorce bill passed by the Philippines House in March is giving women like Alpa Go hope. No divorce bill has ever made it this far in the predominantly Roman Catholic Philippines. Sociologist Jayeel Cornelio of Ateneo University calls it...  Unprecedented.  Cornelio reached via Skype notes that recent polls show more than half of Filipinos are in favor of divorce. He says the passage of a reproductive health bill a few years ago signaled the beginning of the end of the church's dominance in people's lives.  The influence of the Catholic Church when it comes to one politics matters and two private moral affairs is becoming weaker and weaker.  On a Sunday morning I went to see Auxillary Catholic Bishop Broderick Pabillo in his office where a Bible study class was being held next door. Pabillo is adamant that allowing divorce will weaken Philippine society.  According to our Philippine Constitution now you are supposed to protect the family and to strengthen the family. And divorce will not help our people at all.  Not even women who have been abandoned or a battered woman who just wants out?  She can be legally separated from the man. So we have also a way out.  Legally separated but still married to the batterer.  We cannot make a policy for certain cases whereas the whole society would suffer in the long run.  And the church still has a powerful ally in the Philippine Senate which must also pass the bill for it to become law.  Unfortunately for those who are proposing it I do not believe in it. As far as I am concerned it is not a priority.  That is Senate majority leader Vicente Sotto III a staunch opponent of divorce as are many others in the Senate. But he says that does not mean he will not allow a vote.  I am not going to stymie the bill because I am not in favor of divorce. That does not mean I will not do my job I will.  Both the Senate majority leader and Bishop Pabillo put the chances of passage in the Senate at about 50-50. It would still need to be approved by President Duterte whose own marriage was annulled. He is expressed his opposition to divorce in the past but then he is not a fan of the Catholic Church either. For NPR News I am Michael Sullivan in Manila.  