 The Godfather of Go-Go has died. Chuck Brown helped create the style of music that became the signature sound of the nation's capital. NPR's Mandalit del Barco has this remembrance.  With his gravelly voice his signature fedora shades and a gold tooth Chuck Brown always knew how to rock a crowd.  I want you all to make some noise. Giddyup!   Brown's call-and-response with the audience a slow conga beat go-go a blend of funk soul and Latin party music he helped create in the early 1970s.  It is a groove. It is a feeling that goes on and on and on. That is why they call it go-go.  Brown told NPR in 2007 that the musical hooks he and his band The Soul Searchers developed were best experienced live.  You got the percussion and a little funky music there and some funky lyrics that you might shout at the audience and they holler back at you. I mean that is the full ingredients of it.    When you walk in the club you want to show some love. What? Row row row row row.  Brown was born in 1936 into a family of North Carolina sharecroppers. When he was eight they moved to Washington D.C. As a teen Brown ended up serving eight years behind bars for shooting a man in what he said was self-defense. In prison he says he swapped five cartons of cigarettes for another inmate's guitar. And when he was released he began singing at local nightclubs and recording.   I feel like bustin' loose. Give me the bridge you all. Give me the bridge now now.  Brown's song Bustin' Loose hit number one on Billboard's RB charts in 1979. It was his biggest hit and years later rapper Nelly sampled it for his song Hot in Herre. Natalie Hopkinson who has a new book about go-go says Chuck Brown's music became the soundtrack for Washington D.C.'s black community.  He was royalty in the city. This is just kind of inconceivable that he is gone because he was such an embodiment of the music that just went and went and went.  And so did Chuck Brown for more than four decades.  I still have some fire here you know I am still getting hired. So as not no point in being retired. I just want to go on and on until it is over.  Chuck Brown died yesterday. Mandalit del Barco NPR News.  