 You may know Paula Poundstone from the smash public radio hit - other than this program - Wait Wait... Do not Tell Me! But she is also an accomplished author now of two books all the more an accomplishment because each book took nearly a decade to write. The latest is The Totally Unscientific Study Of The Search For Human Happiness. And it is full of experiments Poundstone undertook to try and unlock the secrets happy people must surely know. And of course her motivations were pure.  All right do not tell anybody that I ever said this.  I will not say anything.  I was hoping that the publisher would pay for the things.  .  You know? Like I could do all this fun stuff and somebody else would pay for it you know because it is research on this book.  Right.  Boy I could not have been more wrong about that.  . Yeah you spent eight years doing this right? How many different experiments did you do?  Well I cannot remember. There might be 10 maybe...  Yeah.  ...Or something like that. You know - let us see I did one thing where I got fit for a long period of time. I mean several months taking really grueling taekwondo classes. I went backpacking for a few nights and days with my oldest daughter. I - let us see I spent a day hugging everyone I met. I rented a Lamborghini for a day. But there is a difference between enjoying something and something making you happy you know? The question was when I left off doing whatever the thing was what kind of umbrella did that leave me with for the inevitable rainstorm of life's difficulties that come sprinkled throughout every day? So the real meat of the story is yes I mean hopefully they are the funniest field notes ever taken...  .  ...On each individual thing but the real story is when I was back in my regular life - raising my children doing my goofy stupid job you know a house full of animals constant scheduling nightmare - how did whatever that thing that I did bear up?  Yeah. Well how did you come up with these ideas? How did you come up with this very scientific study or not so scientific?  Well some of them were suggested by other people. And each chapter is written as a science experiment. This one me and my kids thought was surefire to be the one that was really going to make us happy. My children - and I never allowed them to watch television growing up so we decided that we would try watching movies all day long which was like the most exotic thing that we could think of really for us.  What could possibly go wrong ?  We argued and argued. Plus my tailbone began to hurt. But my son's movie tapes - I forget how old he was at the time. He might have been 13 maybe 14 maybe. You know he kept wanting to watch one of those horrible crashy one - Fast And...  The Fast And Furious.  Yeah. And you know we put it on and me and my daughters could only last so long with it before I finally had to go - you know what? - I cannot watch another second of this. And he did not understand why like his films got vetoed so I finally just simplified it. I said you know Honey a good film Vin Diesel's not in.   Aw poor Vin Diesel.  Oh yeah because he cares so much what I think.  You also tried the power of positive thinking. Tell us some of your mantras.  Well let us see. One of them was I can find my happy place. I got them off the internet. I remember one of them was my body is my vehicle and you know I fill it with hope or something. And I could get as far as my body is my vehicle. But I fill it with hope was almost speaking another language for me. So I changed it to my body is my vehicle. I will never pass the smog test.   So what of everything you tried made you the happiest?  Well I do not think it comes in huge long stretches. And if it appears to then you are probably daft. I think that the answer is very unromantic. I think that the answer is a lot of stuff that we kind of sort of knew but were hoping was not true which is exercise good sleep habits. You know I wish I could tell you that there was like a class that you took and then you are all set. But the truth is - and it is such a dry horrible answer - drink water.   Good to know.  Yeah.  So Paula Poundstone are you happier now? Are you happier?  I think I am. Yeah I think I am  Paula Poundstone's new book is called The Totally Unscientific Study Of The Search For Human Happiness. Thanks so much.  Thank you.   And Paula Poundstone's new NPR podcast Live From The Poundstone Institute launches in July. 