 You know that Thomas Edison quote genius is 1 percent inspiration 99 percent perspiration? Well that is pretty much the basis of our next guest's work. Psychologist Angela Duckworth is best known for her research on grit and it is become a buzzword in the field of education. Duckworth started her career as a teacher and she was puzzled by something she repeatedly saw in her classroom. Some of her students were quick studies picking up the material easily. But they did not necessarily do all that well in her class. Meanwhile other students who struggled at first but tried and tried again they did really well. She is done lots of research on why that is - what makes people successful in the classroom in the boardroom and on the field. Angela Duckworth lays it all out in her new book called Grit. She joins us now on the line. Angela thanks for being with us.  Thank you for having me.  Define grit for me.  Grit in a word is stamina. But it is not just stamina in your effort. It is also stamina in your direction stamina in your interests. If you are working on different things but all of them very hard you are not really going to get anywhere. You will never become an expert.  So that means focus to some degree.  Exactly but focus over time not just in the moment.  If someone unequivocally demonstrates the qualities that you define as gritty can they quit something?  You are not gritty if you are like gritty about some you know very particular item on your to-do list like get the email sent to this one particular person. That is not what grit is about. Grit is typically about an overarching generally abstract goal that motivates everything that you do. Let me give you an example. When kids are as they should be exploring new interests - taking up a sport for the first time figure out whether they like biology you know trying to know whether they are going to be a doctor when they grow up or a baker - it is very important that they quit things because quitting is necessary for exploration. The older you get however I think the more we should try at least to find things that we can do for a little longer so that there is something that we could call a deepening expertise. And that I think is something you for sure see in mature paragon of grit someone who really exemplifies passion and perseverance.  Well and this is the mucky area of parenting too right? If your kid comes to you after trying a new sport or an instrument for just a month and just says this is just not for me Mom.  I have not met a parent yet who has not encountered that exact dilemma right? I mean my daughters wanted to quit things you know just like anybody else's sons or daughters. Here's my advice. It is a very good thing to teach kids to finish what they started in the sense of fulfilling their commitments. So when my daughter told me on the second track meet that she was done with it because she discovered she did not like competing I made her finish the season. And when my other daughter came home crying because her ballet teacher scolded her for not holding her arms the right way and said I quit I said I am going to let you quit as soon as this tuition payment is over.  .  It is a natural ending. You fulfilled your - until then you are going back to that ballet class and you do your best.  So let us talk about measuring grit because this is something that is been debated in terms of education and standards. And you have weighed in on this. You wrote an op-ed in The New York Times saying that while schools have kind of recognized now that grit is a good thing that it should not necessarily be an official academic assessment. Why not?  It is both inappropriate and frankly at this point impossible to accurately gauge grit for any kind of high-stakes accountability either rewarding or punishing the kid for their grit or lack thereof or their teacher or school. The measures are simply not precise enough. They are entirely fakeable . I finish whatever I begin. I think any clever person would be able to figure out the quote right answer to that one. I think the very idea of character of developing not just grit but empathy and curiosity emotional intelligence - you know the things that I want my own daughters to develop the idea that we are going to get there through rewards and punishments seems completely at odds with the idea of character itself.  Does it frustrate you at all that your research has been used as a way to create yet another measurement in public schools one that you disagree with?  Well I think any researcher who has their articles read by more than seven other human beings...  .  ...Does a little bit of a jig of joy because it is an unusual occurrence. And in the sense that my work has helped I think change the conversation a bit to talk about what is going on with schools and how we are encouraging effort that is great. But to the extent that we kind of take those findings and go farther than the science is able to inform us that it is ready to go I think that is very dangerous.  Angela Duckworth is a professor of psychology at the University of Pennsylvania. Her new book is called Grit. Thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you. It is been a pleasure. 