 An esteemed literary critic Elie Simon who is six years old recently said of Which Puppy? - the new book by Kate And Jules Feiffer - read it please. And afterwards she said - read it again. A true compliment coming from a critic who is developed her literary tastes by reading Daniel Pinkwater books. Which Puppy? is inspired by the public search of the Obama family for a dog to join them in the White House. Kate Feiffer is the author of several books for children. She has done the words. Jules Feiffer is the Pulitzer Prize winning cartoonist illustrator and playwright. He is done the artwork. Both Feiffers join us in our studios in New York. Thanks very much for being with us. Mr.  Thank you. Ms.  Hi Scott it is great to be here. Thank you.  You are not related are you? Mr.  I have to tell you something.  Mr.  Yes she is my first child.  So - now what happened? You saw President Obama's acceptance speech from Chicago on election night where he promised his daughters a puppy and turned to each other and said Ms.  Well not quite but of course I watched that and who knew then that the puppy would be the big news from the speech. But the next day my editor contacted me and asked if I had any ideas for a story about this. And I thought - yeah sure. She asked if hamsters or any other animals would qualify for the puppy. And I thought I could play with this I would love to try. And so I took a stab at writing the story. That trick of course was how do we end it because we did not know what the puppy would be.  Right. And you were not writing a book about Bo specifically. Ms.  No we had no - Bo was not in the mix then. So I had to write it very quickly because he wanted it get it out before the first hundred days of the administration - handed it off to well we needed to find an illustrator. So I went to  Did you know of any? Ms.  You know I knew of a few. One when I met few years ago. And so I went I asked him and he said no.  You said no Jules? Mr.  Yeah let me make this clear. Kate has done what four five six books. I have done two of them in illustration a third one will be coming up. But I thought it was important that other people do her books and she is had some wonderful illustrators and I happened to be tied down with deadlines. But when she could not find anybody who would do this immediately and this had to be done immediately I got a pass from one of my publishers and sat down to work on this. So I went up to Martha's Vineyard where she has a house and I have a summer house which is technically heated but not really and turned on what is technically heated and then bundled up in all my clothes and in 20 days 21 days drew the book and it was one of the great fun experiences of my working life.  Now when two are working together do the words come first then the illustrations? Do the illustrations suggest a change in words? What happens? Mr.  The first thing you do with a kids' book - it is an interesting process because there is a typed manuscript and that typed manuscript has to be broken down into 28 pages and there is front matter. So you have to figure out what goes on what page and how they relate to each other and then figure out what the pictures are going to be. So you do just the rough sketch of how it will all play. And whatever the picture is it can be wonderful but if it does not carry the story then it has no point.  To convey some of the story a bit - it is not just puppies who want to be the White House puppy is it? Ms.  No no not at all. We have Kisha the kitten who thinks she can be a contender. We have a turtle who takes barking lessons and a guinea pig who says she can tell time with her tail.  Kate when you write a book are you conscious of writing for young readers? Ms.  Yes I relate to kids very much on their level I think and when I am writing I am right there with them. I am trying to find a voice that they will connect with a voice that I connect with and a voice that I feel is authentic.  I asked what it was like for a writer and illustrator to work together. What about a father and daughter? Mr.  Hell.  Ms.  It would be fine if he had stayed in a nice warm apartment.  Ms.  It is different it is entirely different. When I work with an illustrator who I am not related to I do not see the work until it is pretty much finished. With him I see it when he does the illustration Mr.    Ms.  You know I go over there I see it every day. That way I can check on him also that is my excuse. And so it is entirely a different process. You get to see the book evolve and emerge and come to life. Mr.  'ecause Kate's writing both in this book and the earlier one I did Henry the Dog With No Tail each of these books have a voice and a humor that is so akin to my inner ear that it is just a trip and a half to figure out ways of illustrating it. I mean it is - it is not work it is just endless fun and I cannot imagine ever having more fun than I had on this book. I think it is the best job of illustration I have done. And I had a ball although I was freezing cold the whole time.  Is there a special sensation because you are her father? I mean do you recognize traits of your own influence or at least think you do? Mr.  Every word.  Mr.  No because I it is not at all the way I would write. I mean she goes in for puns that I  admire enormously but I would not dare do them. In her book Henry the Dog With No Tail Henry has a tail pasted on him which will not work until walking around he goes to Battery Park which is full of batteries. And he attaches a battery from Battery Park and it works. Now who would dream of Battery Park being full of batteries? It is just insane and hilarious.  Kate I do not to want to give away the the ending of this book Which Puppy? But to me the message seems to be everybody has a role to play. Ms.  I really wanted in this book to reflect the spirit of inclusion that we saw in the Obama campaign. And without giving away the ending I hope the end of the book does reflect that spirit. Mr.  And I must say that her hirsute father who is a political cartoonist did not get this point at all until after I finished the book and looked at it.  Mr.  Fathers are always last. Well Feiffers thanks very much for being with us. Ms.  Thank you Scott. Mr.  Scott it was a great pleasure.  Kate and Jules Feiffer their new book ostensibly for children is Which Puppy? 