 Let us get an update now on protests in the Middle East. In Yemen there are reports that the government has responded with force against anti-government protestors outside the capital. Yemeni warplanes bombed the coastal city of Zinjibar which was captured over the weekend by Islamist militants. And in Yemen's main industrial city Taiz Soldiers reportedly opened fire on a demonstration and used bulldozers to run down protesters  killing more than a dozen. We reached reporter Tom Finn who writes for the Guardian newspaper. He is in the capital Sanaa. And what more can you tell us about today's developments? Mr.  Well the government's currently grappling on two fronts. On the one hand it is launched a very brutal attack on a group of around 10000 protesters in the southern city of Taiz. Now they have been camped out in tents in a main square in the center of that city for the last four months. And about 3 oclock this morning the army moved in with bulldozers and started setting fire to tents and basically clearing all the protesters out of this area. So they clearly decided that they did not want the protests to carry on any longer. So we have kind of got this brutal crackdown going on in an urban area in Taiz the second biggest city in Yemen. And in the coastal city of Zinjibar on the southern coast of Yemen they are trying desperately to retrieve the city which is basically now overrun by about three or four hundred Islamic militants who took over the city on Friday and have since basically been ruling it. I have spoken to a couple of residents there and they said that this group while the government has called them al-Qaida are actually a local sort of Islamic faction who have their own grievances with the government but are not part of al-Qaida. Anyway the government is now on a campaign to try and wrest control back from this group. And as you said they have been bombing and shelling the city as well as launching attacks from helicopters. So what we are witnessing in Yemen is a kind of you know steady deterioration of the situation  wide spread in cities across the country.  And remind us because I think it is sometimes hard to keep track of these protests in a place like Yemen what are they seeking? Mr.  Well the protesters have an incredibly varied set of demands. As I said you have kind of got this urbanized youthful protest movement. Their demands are essentially  they are asking for pluralist democracy. They are asking for an end to corruption. They want to see fair  open and fair elections. And they also you know are campaigning for free speech  you know just basic fundamentals of a democratic rights. But on the same hand you have got lots of other people who have long-held grievances of the government. And their main concerns are basically economic. You know Yemen is the poorest country in the Middle East and a lot of people now are turning against the government simply because they are running out of water. The economy is you know entering a death spiral in Yemen. The prices of gas and water and basic commodities have skyrocketed in the last few weeks. So that is now part of this protest movement. Essentially all these widespread grievances are all being directed at president Ali Abdullah Saleh. But as I said before you know a varied group of people with a varied bunch of demands.  Tom Finn is a freelance journalist speaking to us from Yemen's capital Sanaa. Thank you very much. Mr.  Good to talk to you thanks. 