 There are more than a billion Apple iPhones in use right now and to make in-app purchases on any one of those phones you have to use Apple's App Store. Epic Games the maker of Fortnite is suing in federal court over this. And NPR tech reporter Bobby Allyn has been in the courtroom in Oakland. Good morning Bobby.  Good morning.  Let me start with the standard disclaimer that Apple is a financial supporter of NPR. Why is Epic suing them?  Well because they are mad at Apple simply specifically because you know every time someone tries to make a purchase in the game Fortnite on an iPhone Apple is pocketing 30. You know and this is a widespread commission that is become known as the Apple tax. And Epic just says it is not fair. Now Epic did not exactly go after Apple quietly here when they unveiled their lawsuit last year. It came along with the dramatic video making fun of Apple and of course a hashtag freefortnite rallying you know millions of people around the world against Apple. Now internal documents that have emerged over the course of this trial revealed that Epic actually dubbed this big publicity stunt Project Liberty and they were seeking liberty from Apple's 30 fee.  OK so what does Apple say about the Apple tax?  Well Apple says you know when it launched its App Store in 2008 a 30 commission on digital goods was an industry standard. And they say that remains so. In fact you know game consoles like Microsoft's Xbox and Sony PlayStation they have this same 30 fee. And Apple argues you know the reason why you know iPhone apps are so safe and secure the reason why you know you are not getting hacked and that they are not buggy is because they have like this team that reviews every single app before it is available on the App Store. You know how are those salaries paid? Through this 30. So Apple says it really needs to charge this.  What is at stake here for the billion or so of us who have iPhones?  Yeah look this trial is about one video game company Epic as we mentioned. But it is really a window into a multibillion-dollar mobile economy. I mean Epic says you know Apple has too much control over this mobile economy basically that it has monopoly power and it is abusing it. And Epic says who is stuck in the middle but people like you and I Noel consumers and that prices are higher as a result. So if Epic wins in this trial you know they say the price of buying a subscription to your favorite app could go down because baked into those prices is Apple's take.  And what is it like in the courtroom? Is it high drama?  Well  not exactly. I mean this is an antitrust trial so it is not exactly you know stadium fireworks. It is been a lot of dry and technical testimony. But remember one of the litigants here is a video game maker. So that has made for some very fun moments like when the trial turned to a discussion of a banana character wearing a tuxedo. And a witness literally had to tell the court yes judge that is a Fortnite outfit known officially as Agent Peely.  Agent Peely - my goodness. Too bad he will not take the stand. So what happens next in this trial?  So eventually Epic will rest its case and then Apple will pick up its defense. And look Apple has a lot to defend here. You know ever since iPhone sales peaked some years ago Apple's been looking for new ways to make money and a big cash cow for them are services. That is you know these fees you know that are tacked onto subscriptions. This makes a lot of money for Apple. And Apple is a 2 trillion company. This is the most valuable company in the world. So you better bet they have a lot on the line here. Lots of anticipation ahead for Apple CEO Tim Cook. He is actually expected to take the witness stand as soon as next week.  NPR tech reporter Bobby Allyn. Thanks Bobby.  Thanks Noel.  