 A website called Lala.com is a popular music site that allows users to download or stream their favorite songs. Apple bought it last December and then decided to close it at the end of this month. It is not clear why but there is speculation Apple is developing a similar service. Lala had become a valuable tool for other music sites and its shutdown is having reverberations as Lara Pellegrinelli reports from New York.  Lala is easy to love. It costs 89 cents per download as opposed to the dollar you would spend on iTunes. To stream a song and add it to your library without downloading it the price is a cool dime. And if you want to preview a track you can listen to it once all the way through legally and for free. So I am looking for a song on the Prince album 1999.   When you do a Google search you often get the song you want with its own handy play button. Simply click it and there is the song.   You do not even have to go to Lala to stream its music so it is become immensely popular - especially with other companies' music websites.  When they did get to the streaming model of the click-to-stream it was exactly what we had hoped to have on our website as it is.  Reverend Moose is the editor-in-chief of the CMJ New Music Report which compiles airplay charts for college radio. Its charts use Lala play buttons. Without having to leave CMJ's pages users can explore anything they are reading about - at least for now.  A lot of what benefits our users is not going and saying I wonder what Weezer sounds like. People know what Weezer sounds like. So it is really about what does this band that is getting play in Murfreesboro Tennessee...   ...what do they sound like? Because I see that they are creating some type of buzz. And from an A point of view from a discovery point of view it is an invaluable asset.  Because Lala built relationships with independent distributors and not just the big music labels anyone can track down one of those Murfreesboro bands like Self.   Another place that will have to figure out what to do without Lala is New York's Le Poisson Rouge a performing arts space that presents world music jazz classical and indie rock. Justin Kantor is one of its founders.  Because of the wide variety of music we have it is really important that our website can clearly define each artist and what they are about and Lala was actually a really great easy way of us to be able to do that.  LPR has play buttons in its calendar listings so people can listen ahead of time and see if they want to buy a ticket. Videos from YouTube and Vimeo will have to suffice until LPR sorts out other options - or the industry does it for them.  I do not think we have heard the last of Lala. I do not know exactly what Apple is intending to do but there is no doubt about the fact that streaming music is the way of the future and I think eventually MP3s are going to become the same thing that eight-tracks were.   If Apple turns its attention to streaming rather than selling downloads the MP3 could go of the way of the eight-track. Then the Coldplay song in the iPod ads will finally make sense I used to rule the world.    I used to rule the world.  For NPR News I am Lara Pellegrinelli in New York.   Now in the morning I sleep alone. 