 NPR's Karen Grigsby Bates reports.  If you see groups of women striding down the street this weekend stilettos clicking lips glossed earrings swinging into the local movie house you can bet they are not there to see Iron Man 2 or MacGruber.   Of course they are not. They are all going to see Sex and the City 2 the brand new feature that has Carrie Bradshaw and her best friends Miranda Samantha and Charlotte flaunting their fabulous finery and flying off some place amazing.    One week in Abu Dhabi all expenses paid for all four of us.   Get out of town.   My point exactly. I can hear the decadence calling.  Chad Brice manages the Hollywood branch of the Arclight Cinemas and says this is their party package.  One ticket for the movie and an hour-and-a-half free party two specialty cocktails and we have got some really great specialty drinks all worked out. There is appetizers prepared by our in-house chef.  Ms. MARLEY MAJCHER  Can imagine like there is cocktails there is booze they are all excited from the movie chick book clubs get wild. It is this - 400 women all for the same thing. I mean it is just going to be great.   That is Marley Majcher owner of The Party Goddess an event planning company in Los Angeles. She is partnered with Nicole Matthews of the San Diego- based Henley Company to produce a private party and screening in Santa Monica on Friday night. Initially Majcher wondered whether she would sell out.  First it would be like a couple of people would buy tickets. But now what is happening is they are signing on and they are buying four or six.  Majcher says doing it in a group is part of the fun.  I think there is the whole camaraderie thing of women that is just great. And we are all busy and we are emailing and texting and nobody's actually seeing each other face-to-face. You know you are going to see your friends.  Arclight Cinema's Chad Brice says advance sales for the movie have been brisk and the theater will do what it has to to accommodate demand.  We have been kind of adding shows as shows are selling out. There is a show starting about every 45 minutes.  Karen Grigsby Bates NPR News. 