 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. Time for sports.   Wow! Detroit against Chicago in the playoffs again! But it is not the Pistons versus the Bulls. No those days gone. Over. It is Red Wings versus Blackhawks. Now when was the last time that an NHL match-up actually meant something? Probably when Gordie Howe and Stash Mikita were on the ice. If the NBA suits you more though than the NHL you can call tomorrow Game Seven Sunday. Howard Bryant is here. Thanks for joining us Howard. Mr.  Good morning Scott. Boy you must be in all of your glory right now. You got to whip out the old Stan Mikita jersey.   I have to dust it off. Actually I was a Bobby Hall guy. Bobby Hall guy. The Golden Jet. Listen you are a go-to guy. Who are the go-to guys going to be in tomorrow night's OrlandBoston game? We are talking hoops now. Mr.  Well Scott I have already said my goodbyes to the Boston Celtics even though I  I was going to remind you a couple weeks ago. Yeah. Mr.  I expect them to win tomorrow but they are the defending champions. They are playing without Kevin Garnett. They have been gallant. They look like they are out of gas. However they do have the heart of a champion. You are going to look for Paul Pierce. Look for Ray Allen. Look for Eddie House who is had a great series. On the Orlando side of course look at the man in the middle Dwight Howard and Rashard Lewis. They are big and they are strong and they are - I do not like the Orlando Magic necessarily as a championship level team but they - they are such a weird offensive club. I have always said that outside-in clubs do not win in the play-offs. You cannot win by launching three pointers. But they have done it so far. I think both of those teams will get steamrolled by the onrushing LaBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers.  LakersRockets is the other Game Seven tomorrow. Everybody is so focused on - with delight on the possibility of a LakersCleveland final. Houston have a chance to upset that? Mr.  Houston has a big chance to upset and that is one of the things I like about this narrative is that we talk about this inevitability of the Los Angeles Lakers. And Houston has shown that they are a very tough team even without Yao Ming. You have got Ron Artest and Shane Battier. They play defense they play ugly but they are on you. And if that game stays under a hundred points I think Houston will win it. It is just a question of whose style is going to be imposed on the other. If the Lakers get out and run and do what they do at home I mean they beat them by 40 points in the last game in Los Angeles. But then Houston came back and won at their place. So if it is a close tight game underneath a hundred points I think Houston will pull the upset.  Hmm. Okay. To pucks. Do the Blackhawks have a chance of beating the Detroit Red Army Wings? Mr.  Yes they do and I like them. I like Martin Havlat the forward right winger for the Blackhawks. They are a young team. They have improved 17 points the last two years. And they of course to answer your question have not met in a meaningful series in any kind of a regular basis since the early 1960s. And the Blackhawks' last Stanley Cup Championship was in 1961 in six games over the Red Wings. And so  Not even I remember that yeah. Mr.  I was going to say you were there for that one were not you?  I was not alas. Yeah.  Mr.  And the Red Wings are the defending champions and they are obviously as good as they have always been. And they are going to be the favorites in this series. But I like the upstarts. I know Chris Osgood is a great goaltender. But - and the Red Wings are the Red Wings but I would like to see a little original six match-up. I want to go with the Blackhawks sentimentally.  And finally you got a horse in the Preakness? Mr.  My horse despite the Kentucky Derby party we had two weeks ago to raise money for the Lee-ella Farm here I went with Pioneer of the Nile. I lost to  I will probably lose again to Rachel Alexander. But I am going with Pioneer of the Nile five to one.  Ooh all right. Howard Bryant. Thanks so much. Mr.  My pleasure. 