 Burt Bacharach has written huge hit songs recognizable after just a couple of notes - Alfie The Look of Love What the World Needs Now That is What Friends are For - boy we could go on. He is written 73 Top 40 hits along with musical comedies and collaborations. He is won Oscars and the Gershwin Prize. And his songs are often poised on the edge between poignance and joy or sometimes the reverse.    What do you get when you fall in love a guy with a pin to burst your bubble. That is what you get for all your trouble. I will never fall in love again...    What the world needs now is love sweet love. It is the only thing that there is just too little of...  He has a new memoir out called Anyone Who Had a Heart. And Burt Bacharach joins us from our studios at NPR West. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me Scott. And if you call me Burt instead of Mr. Bacharach that would make my day Scott.  All right. Well then I would do it.  Who was that that was singing on I will Never Fall in Love Again?  It was the Carpenters. So Karen Carpenter yeah.  Oh my God. What a voice. You know and I was not so aware of that record I will Never Fall in Love Again that she had recorded it and how that good that sounded to me. I love it. When I get home gee I will just download it or upload it whatever the word is and hear that song sung by Karen who was this extraordinary voice.    Do not tell me what it is all about 'ecause I have been there and I am glad I am out. Out of those chains those chains that bind you. That is why I am here to remind you. What do you get when you fall in love...  Let me ask you about Hal David 'ecause there is a particularly astonishing sentence in the book where you are talking about writing songs with Hal in the famous Brill Building in Manhattan. And you say during the next four years I wrote 80 songs with Hal - dot-dot-dot - none of them were hits. I cannot imagine that Burt Bacharach and Hal David wrote 80 songs that were not hits. Can you remember any of them? What happened to them?  Those are the songs you want to forget you wrote I think. It just was not with Hal. I was writing with Bob Hilliard. And I think it was also finding my voice. There was a song called Peggy's in the Pantry and that one should not have been heard.    Peggy's in the pantry so are all the boys. Peggy's in the pantry. Cannot you hear the noise? Bet she is not picking on a chicken bone...  Not every one is a gem. Where I came from to get the Brill Building 'ecause it was a background in classical music and certainly hanging out you know and studying with Darius Milhaud. Darius Milhaud taught me at Music Academy of the West and he is this brilliant French composer wonderful man. I am taking composition class with him where I would written a piece a sonatina for violin oboe and piano. You know it was very extreme music that people were writing like we were all influenced by 12-tone music Alban Berg. And I had this one piece that at the end of the semester I got to play for Milhaud - not with violin not with the oboe not with the piano I just had to just do it at the piano. And I was very very reluctant when it came to the second movement 'ecause it was quite melodic instead of being harsh and dissonant and avant-garde. And he took me aside afterwards and maybe he sensed what I felt or maybe his just observation was Never be ashamed of something that is melodic one could whistle. And I said wow. So that was a valuable lesson I learned from him. Never forgot that one. Never be afraid of something that you can whistle.    There is one thing left to do before my story's through. I have got to take you for my wife so the story of my life can start and end with you.  Let me ask you about some of the music we know so well Raindrops Keep Falling on My Head from Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid.    Raindrops keep falling on my head and just like the guy whose feet are too big for his bed nothing seems to fit those raindrops are falling on my head they keep falling...  It is not raining in that scene.   I know I know I know.  How did that lyric come about? What happened?  Well I had not scored that many films Scott so you know that one kind of squirreled me for a lot you know. I kept watching it on my movie auto machine. And the more I watched it the more I heard melodically where I wanted to go how it would be. This one melody that would then go into sort of like when they started doing tricks on the bicycle it becomes a little more circus-y. I just kept hearing it that raindrops keep falling on my head. No there is no rain Scott and it is a clear sky - but it is symbolic.    But there is one thing I know the blues they send to meet me will not defeat me...  Putting a voice like B.J. Thomas on there the ukulele. Everybody connected with the film wanted Ray Stevens for the picture. He was a very hot singer at the time. He saw the movie hated the movie. Heard the song hated the song. We got B.J. Thomas.    Nothing's worrying me. It will not be long till happiness steps up to greet me.  Another song I would like to ask you about. You wrote That is What Friends Are For with your then-wife Carole Bayer Sager. It is a song that begins with and.   Yeah. Ex-wife Carole me writing that song. Carole's one of the fastest lyric writers ever. But Carole did not have a lot of patience to sit in a room while I went like do I like it like this or do I like it like that? You know I want to make it as perfect as I can make it. You know often it will be the original instinct but I kept pushing for and I - start the song and. And she said why? I mean finally she said just to get out of the room all right say and I. OK. I got to get out of here she said. And you know I mean Carole'd be the first to tell you it makes a difference because it makes a conversation.    And I never thought I would feel this way and as far as I am concerned I am glad I got the chance to say that I do believe I love you. And if I should ever go away well then close your eyes and try to feel the way we do today...  Burt thank you so much for speaking with us.  Well I appreciate you and I like it that you care about the music.    Keep smiling keep shining knowing you can always count on me...  Burt Bacharach. New book Anyone Who Had a Heart My Life in Music. Thanks so much.  Thank you Scott.    For good times and bad times I will be on your side forever more...  And this is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 