 The former head of the German automaker Volkswagen has been indicted. A U.S. federal grand jury charged VW's former CEO Martin Winterkorn and five other top executives for conspiracy to defraud the United States and for violating the Clean Air Act. This comes as a result of the company's diesel cheating scandal you might remember. NPR's Sonari Glinton has the story.  Volkswagen's so-called dieselgate began with cheating. The company installed software in its cars that - I will just let Jake Fisher with Consumer Reports explain.  And what they programmed these vehicles to do is to sense when they are taking the test and actually operate differently at that time. And at the time that they are being tested they would pollute less.  Now it was getting caught installing that cheating software that caused VW so many problems. Investigations sprung up on three continents. The company has had to pay more than 20 billion in fines with a B and now nine VW executives including the former CEO have been criminally charged.  I think it really took a - made a shockwave through the entire industry that this is the effect of what happens when you cheat. It really does not pay off.  While the company has had to pay a lot of money in fines it is unlikely that these former VW executives will see the inside of a U.S. jail cell. That is because the German government does not usually extradite its citizens. Gina Coplon-Newfield is with the Sierra Club. She says there is actually a silver lining to all this. That is because as a part of the settlement VW has had to invest in green technology for the public.  VW is now being forced to spend billions of dollars to both compensate duped consumers but also to invest in such things as electric vehicle transit buses school buses and port vehicles as well as electric vehicle charging stations and public outreach.  Volkswagen has clearly changed its direction since the scandal and is now investing in electric vehicles. Sales are up. The company has even surpassed its rival Toyota.  You know what? If they have paid the price financially and if its people responsible have paid the price then you know I do not think it matters so much to us whether the company does well. If they are doing well because they are selling cleaner vehicles then that is terrific.  Volkswagen says it is continuing to cooperate with the U.S. Justice Department and this week the company's new CEO Herbert Diess told shareholders in Berlin quote Volkswagen has to become more honest more open more truthful. Sonari Glinton NPR News. 