 This week Ford Motor Company got a new CEO. His name is Jim Hackett. His job description? Prepare Ford for a future of self-driving cars and keep the thing profitable by selling trucks. NPR's Sonari Glinton reports that while Hackett has a unique set of skills that is still an extremely tall order.  Ford Motor Company is kind of different than the other car companies. By the way this seems like a good time to say that my mom is a Ford retiree and I worked on a Ford assembly line during college. Anyway the culture of the company is distinct.  It starts with the employees. As you know people who work for Ford particularly in Detroit say they work for the Fords. They work at Ford's.  That is Michelle Krebs. She is executive analyst at Autotrader. And she is dealt with at least a half a dozen Ford CEOs over the decades.  The Ford name is on the building and on the company. I think there is extra sensitivity by the family. Many of the family members are very involved in the business Bill Ford being the chairman of the company. And when the company starts getting bad press I think the family takes that fairly personally.  The previous CEO Mark Fields had a nearly 30-year career at Ford. He would led divisions such as Mazda. And it was during his tenure that the company hit records in sales and profits. But he was the subject of President Trump's tweets and the stock fell nearly 40 percent.  They want a charismatic cheerleading leader who will rally the troops especially since times are getting tougher.  Rally the troops? Jim Hackett has a ton of experience doing that. Well not really troops - Wolverines actually. Cue the Michigan fight song.    Hail to the conquering heroes. Hail hail to Michigan the champions...  Jim Hackett had been the CEO of Steelcase for about 20 years. But more importantly in Michigan he would recently been athletic director at the University of Michigan. And when he got there they did not have a lot to sing about.  In 2014 in the fall of 2014 Michigan football was at its all-time lowest point since 1879 which is saying a lot right there.  John U. Bacon has written the book on Michigan football a couple of times. His latest - Endzone The Rise And Fall And Return Of Michigan Football .  The stands were empty. The budget was a disaster. The morale could not have been lower. And they are being investigated for a concussion situation. And that is when Hackett walks in. And within about two months he turned around the whole mood if not all the finances. And he hired Jim Harbaugh the legendary coach. Do that around Ann Arbor you are a hero right there. So he knows how to hire good talent.  Bacon called Hackett the turnaround specialist at Michigan. He says the reason for Hackett's tremendous success was he got the big things right.  He hired good people. He delegates a lot which at Ford he is going to have to because he is not an engineer obviously. So I think the skillset that he brings probably will adapt very well to Ford. And he is certainly got the full support of Bill Ford Jr.  But will Hackett get the support of Wall Street? Already the answer is not really. A report out this week from Morgan Stanley says about Ford quote we believe the earnings situation may need to get materially worse before it gets better. Ouch. Meanwhile Michelle Krebs the analyst says the challenge for Hackett is not how many cars or trucks he can sell because the future of driving and mobility is about to change.  The question is how does it change when does change and when is the payoff for a company? And there are also a lot of new competitors that did not exist in this space before and I suspect we will see some competitors we do not even know about yet.  Krebs says Hackett has to rally the troops not just at Ford or in Michigan but all of us because there is a car revolution coming you all. Sonari Glinton NPR News.  