 It is a strategy that is been difficult to pull off elsewhere. Do you think it is possible for a civilian government which is vigorous enough and honest enough to be put in place in Kandahar after a military effort?  Even before Taliban and al-Qaida that is in the eyes of the people in Kandahar. So the government of Afghanistan is not looking at it from that angle. That makes it problematic.  It sounds like the trick is whether the Karzai government is willing now or can be persuaded to deliver on a good government there.  Absolutely.  Dr. Abdullah when you ran for election you drew crowds of thousands and tens of thousands of Afghans excited about you and your candidacy but also excited about the whole campaign process. We know fraud ultimately left a cloud over that vote. On the other hand you and others have been free to organize a democratic political opposition. How far have you been able to get?  We have members in the existing parliament of Afghanistan. We are going to have candidates for the upcoming parliamentary elections and hopefully one day we will be able to deliver to the people based on their votes.  Do you have high hopes for this upcoming parliamentary election which is at the moment scheduled for September but should happen in the fall?  We are hopeful but at the same time we are concerned. We do not want to go through the same exercise as we went through during the presidential elections in terms of fraud. That is the concern.  Just one last question as you return to the war. General Stanley McChrystal said very recently that the Taliban were not winning but they were not losing. Effectively he said at this moment in time it was something of a stalemate. What in your view would be the repercussions if indeed the pullout of U.S. troops and NATO troops begins in the summer of 2011? Not that long - a little over a year from now.  The repercussion of premature withdrawal let us say today tomorrow before we have a stable system which is sanctioned for the people will put all the investment in vain.  Is 2011 premature?  My interest is in the circumstances that it is happening whether by 2011 enough improvement has been made including in the commitment of the Afghan government or whether the U.S. administration has engaged the Afghan government in a way to make sure that while additional forces are there the Afghan government also delivers in its own part to make any strategy successful.  Dr. Abdullah thank you very much.  You are welcome. Thank you.  Abdullah Abdullah was the foreign minister in the first years of the Karzai government. He was the main challenger to President Karzai in last year's presidential election. 