 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. Not every day we get to make contact with the International Space Station. Unidentified Woman NPR this is Houston. Please call Endeavour and ISS for a voice check.  Endeavour ISS this is NPR. How do you hear me? Commander  Loud and clear Scott. How you have us?  Oh just fine. How are you Mark? Mr.  I am really good. Cady and I are enjoying a good day up here.  That is Endeavour Commander Mark Kelly speaking from the International Space Station. We caught up Commander Kelly and flight engineer Cady Coleman on Thursday. Ms. Coleman's been onboard the International Space Station since December. Mark Kelly arrived this week via Space Shuttle Endeavour. Of course this is the final mission for Endeavour and the second-to-last voyage before NASA ends its shuttle program later this year. For Commander Kelly this journey has added significance. His wife Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords is recovering from a gunshot wound she sustained during an attack in Tucson in January. He and Cady Coleman spoke with us from the space station 200 miles above the earth and told us first about the mission. Mr.  We just installed the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer. It is a 2 billion cosmic particle detector. Really a premier physics experiment that is supported by 16 different countries 600 businesses. I mean it is a pretty big project managed out in CERN Switzerland. They have been working on this thing a lot of people for a long time. And today we got it successfully installed on the space station. It is a great day for science.  Cady Coleman what do you do with your time up there? Ms.  Well I do not know where the time goes but I will tell you it is a very busy place. We have got like 130 different experiments running almost at the same time some of them up here on the space station and then maintaining the space station. And also maintaining ourselves and doing some of the medical work some medical experiments. Just to maintain your bone mass you need to exercise about two hours a day up here. So I would say every day is a busy day and a great day up here.  This might well be your last ride in space. I wonder what your thoughts are as you look down on our earth. Mr.  You know the earth's an incredibly beautiful planet. It is you know it is hard to understand sometimes all the conflict in such a beautiful place. You know it is possible that this is my last flight. You know this is a really hard thing to give up. It is very exciting to and it is to be frank a big privilege for all of us to have the opportunity to serve our countries in this way. So it is a tough thing. You know but to answer your question Scott you know just looking down we have got a very fragile and beautiful place to live and we need to take care of it.  Do both of you either of you have any concern that NASA is no longer going to be leading the way? Mr.  You know I think you know NASA is leading the way and will continue to do so. You know we are the lead partner on the International Space Station and when humans go back to the moon and on to Mars I am sure it is going to be the United States and NASA that is leading that as well. As we move into more commercialization of the launch vehicles and getting access to orbit that is still you know NASA that is leading that project and hopefully buying those services. And this is something I think that in the long run could mean you know really the expansion of humans accessing space. So we are pretty excited about the future for NASA.  Cady Coleman when you look down on the Earth what do you think? Ms.  You know you would think after almost six months that I might even be tired of it. And all I will tell you it is always changing. You know different kinds of light just discovering new places. I feel like I have been to these places. And during my time up here we have had the earthquake and tsunami in Japan the conflict in Libya and the flooding in the South lots of things happening on the planet. And it is hard to look at it in that way because when we look from here it still looks beautiful and somehow remote. And so trying to marry up those two things you know the reality of how hard life is down on the planet for so many people right now and yet our view is very angelic really. And so it is hard to marry up those two things. I am not looking forward to giving that up. It is very hard to give it up.  Flight engineer Cady Coleman Commander Mark Kelly thanks so much for speaking with us. Mr.  You are welcome Scott. 