 This next story will test the ability of the British to keep calm and carry on.  London is the home of a new work of art. It is part of a competition.  It is outdoors.  It is more than a little different than the customary statues of heroes on horseback. And it caught the eye of NPR's Ari Shapiro.  This is one of the most iconic venues in London - Trafalgar Square - Nelson's Column surrounded by lions statues of military men standing on pedestals. On one of those pedestals there is a statue that looks nothing like the others.  We are wondering why they have created that skeleton of horse and why they have connected it with the stock exchange. We have not quite worked that out yet.  Penny Palmer and Richard Booth have figured out that this statue was a giant horse's skeleton. They have also figured out that the bow around the horse's front leg is displaying a steady stream of numbers from the London Stock Exchange. That puts them ahead of most of the tourists I spoke with. What does it mean? They are working on it.  The economy is galloping away from us.  The bones of the stock market - it is bare-bones.  No rider - the stock exchange galloping away out of control is slightly worrying.  You have just made yourself a little bit anxious it sounds like.   I have actually. Well how are my savings doing? Oh I have not got any. .  The artist is a man named Hans Haacke. He was born in Germany and has lived in New York for about 50 years. He says he designed this work almost as a lark never thinking that a city like London would go for a piece that takes such direct aim at capitalism and finance.  With this kind of proposal I believe I would have had no chance in New York and this is the environment that I know. And I assumed that London is not much different.  He says he wanted this skeletal horse to play off the more traditional equestrian statues around it. So why did London agree to this edgy piece? Here's the woman who helped put it there.  I am Justine Simons. I am the head of culture for the mayor of London. And I was standing in the heart of London in Trafalgar Square in front of the fourth plinth.  What is the fourth plinth exactly?  The fourth plinth is the most talked-about sculpture prize in the U.K.  Let us start with the word plinth.  So it is a kind of platform for a work of art or you might have a statue on it. It is the base of a statue.  Trafalgar Square has four and three of the plinths hold the kind of traditional bronze statues you would expect. The fourth plinth stood empty for 150 years. First there was no money for statue. Then nobody could agree on who should go there.  So around time of the millennium there was an idea to commission contemporary artists to see what they might do on the empty plinth. And that is the start of the story here.  And this was premised on the notion that these contemporary artworks would not be here permanently?  Exactly yeah. If you do anything permanently people get very very agitated about it. So it is much much easier to have you know temporary works that come and go.  Each sculpture gets a year and a half on the plinth. The current sculpture called Gift Horse replaces a giant bright blue rooster. It is impossible to miss these pieces and it is impossible for people to agree on them either. Justine Simons says that is one of the things she loves about the project. When it comes to the fourth plinth everyone's in an art critic. Ari Shapiro NPR News London. 