 After a lot of anticipation Facebook goes public this week. And its future depends largely on one question Do Facebook ads work? Potential investors are betting that Facebook will become an advertising behemoth. But surprisingly there is very little public research to back them up. What is out there is mostly anecdotal. For instance General Motors yesterday pulled its ads from Facebook saying they did not generate more sales. So NPR's Steve Henn and Zoe Chace from Planet Money Team decided they would run their own little test.  First we need our Guinea pig - a business in need of Facebook advertising.   I found it at Jazz Fest. Michael Friedman and Greg Augarten sell New York-style pizza at a takeout window that could only be found in New Orleans between the streets of Piety and Desire.  Can you make good New York pizza outside of New York? And the dough is like the most important thing.  It is called Pizza Delicious. Two nights a week if you are in the know you call them up and order a pie. Business has been good but they are about to buy their own place. So for the first time they are thinking about paid advertising.  And I also wonder if people will think that  advertising would be lame. I do not know. People think we are like really cool because we are like a pop-up restaurant. But so much of what we have done is just out of necessity.  For the new spot - the restaurant - they are going to need a solid stream of customers. They would been thinking about advertising on Facebook but did not know how.  So we hooked them up with a social media ad guru in California.  I got the pizza guys into a studio in New Orleans.  I got Rob Leathern CEO of Optimal into a studio in San Francisco.  And San Francisco Rob can you hear everybody too?  Yup I can hear everyone real well.  What is up Rob?  What is up?  While these guys wanted to sell more pizza we had an ulterior motive.  We wanted to get inside an ad campaign on Facebook and see if it really worked. Would buying an ad on Facebook actually help sell more pizzas?  First they had to build an ad.  Facebook's story is if your friends like something you are more likely to try it. So the guys decided to target the friends of people who liked Pizza Delicious.  Seventy-four percent of people in New Orleans are already friends with someone who is a fan of your page.  224000 people.  Facebook can slice up potential customers in New Orleans a thousand different ways.  They were looking for people jonesing for real New York pizza.  Type in like the New York Knicks or something. So you could have like the New York Jets Carmelo Anthony the Giants...  Making the New York connection cut the reach of the ad down to 15000. And how could this not work?  We had nailed the demographic. They were golden.  But 12 hours later we started getting these calls from Michael.  On his cell phone. They were kind of sad.  Yeah yeah - it was like all zeros across the board.  Facebook does not make money till people click on the ad. If no one clicks they turn the ad off.  They would struck out. They just had 48 hours to make this work.  So they changed the target. They dropped the Knicks fans.  If we just put in pizza or New Orleans...  And then Zoe you had this stroke of genius.  Stop. You could add like these other things that came up like Italian and mozzarella and gnocchi and espresso.  Yeah and people who like ice cream generally like pizza. That helps out. We are up to like 30000.  The ads went viral as they say twice the usual number of click-throughs. The ad showed up more than 700000 times. Basically everyone in New Orleans on Facebook saw it - twice - and Pizza Delicious got close to 20 times the number of Facebook fans they usually get in two days.  Is that feeling of exhilaration worth 240? I do not know. But hopefully it adds some more business.  The pizza guys paid close to a dollar for each new fan. And while those fans checked out their page on Facebook and clicked like this was no guarantee they were going to show up and actually buy some pizza.  Cut to last Thursday night - 48 hours after the ads started running more than 200 new fans later. Here's Greg.  After a long night of asking every single customer where they found out about Pizza Delicious none of them said that they found out about us through the Facebook ad - zero people.  But while Greg took the garbage out he checked his phone. And there was a message.  Just found out about you guys via a sponsored Facebook ad if you can believe it. Super-excited about your new place. Happy to toss in a few bones over the top.  And this guy kicked in 10 to support the new restaurant.  Yeah and that was cool. I thought that was really cool of him. And we got some return on our ad that we could actually see.  Right let us be clear you made 10 off a 240 investment.  We did.  Maybe someday these guys' new fans will show up and buy some pizza. But social advertising is so new nobody knows for sure. It is still unproven untested largely unstudied.  There is just not a huge body of research out there about the conversion from Facebook fans to buyers. Some companies like Ben and Jerry's say they have gotten a big return.  But it is anecdotal.  Advertisers on Facebook are betting they can make it work that the customers will come.  And that is what Facebook's investors are betting on too. I am Steve Henn in Silicon Valley.  Zoe Chace NPR News New York. 