 Phil Flynn is an energy analyst with PFG Best Futures in Chicago. He joins us from Oakwood Hills Illinois to talk more about the economic impact of high gasoline prices. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Hi Liane it is great to be here.  As we just heard oil prices have taken a dive. The demand for gasoline in the U.S. is down. Will gasoline prices come down too? Mr.  I think they are. I think our long national gasoline price spike nightmare has come to an end. And we saw significant change in the fundamentals in the outlook for the value of the dollar. So because of that I think you know barring some disaster in the Middle East we are going to see prices come down and maybe dramatically so.  How soon? Mr.  I think very shortly - even before Memorial Day.  But what about the long term? There is growing demand for gasoline in China and India for example so it seems like high prices may be here to stay. Mr.  Well I think we are in a different era. There is no doubt about it. You know the question is are we in an era where every time we go to the gasoline station you know prices go up five cents a day like we have been going through or are we going to see a little bit of a stabilization? I think if you look at the situation with gasoline this recent run-up was not all about supply and demand. It was really about the purchasing power of the dollar and the confidence in the U.S. economy. And when that confidence in the dollar and the U.S. economy was shaken the value and purchasing power of the dollar became weakened. And that really drove up the cost. Now if we get a little more confidence in the dollar and the U.S. economy the dollar will become stronger and so despite the fact that you know we may be consuming more we may actually be paying less.  Is there a tipping point though a specific dollar amount where you will see a significant change in consumer behavior? Mr.  You know to be honest with you Liane we already have seen it.  Really? Mr.  You know we have seen demand for gasoline fall five or six weeks in a row. We have seen it affect the economic data. The non-manufacturing number this week was very weak. The ADP employment was very weak. And despite the fact that we had a blockbuster jobs number the job growth is not what it would have been if we did not see that uncertainty with higher gasoline prices.  Given that we have gone through and are still going through high prices for gas could you imagine an effect on the economy such as people would begin to reconsider the size of the cars that they are buying? Mr.  Liane that is happening already. What we are seeing from Ford General Motors all of the major car makers is a shift towards more fuel-efficient cars - in fact probably one of the most significant shifts we have seen since the 1970s. So I think we are already changing our behavior when it comes to our gas-guzzling ways. And in a weird way that could be good for the economy because that is going to mean lower demand in the future. I think if you look at the psychological impact of these rising gasoline prices over the last few months it is come at a very critical time for the U.S. economy. I mean we are just trying to get up off the mat after the economic slowdown and this sharp spike in price really seemed to hurt. But I think people are starting to realize it is not just about supply and demand it is not just about the Middle East it is about economic policy. And I think if the U.S. government gets their budget under control or gets a budget deal I think if we can basically start talking about getting in line with interest rates it could actually increase the value of the dollar and bring down the cost of gasoline and food for everybody.  Phil Flynn is an energy analyst with PFG Best Futures in Chicago. Thank you very much. Mr.  Thanks Liane. 