 There is a small nonprofit in Muncie Ind. that helps people fight cancer. But that good work did not prevent them from falling victim to a cyberattack like the one that locked computers around the world last week. The organization was hacked in January. And several months later it is still recovering. Indiana Public Broadcasting's Annie Ropeik has the story.  Everything was missing - client files financial data all gone. It did not make sense to the six-person staff of Cancer Services of East Central Indiana also known as Little Red Door. And then to add to the confusion says executive director Aimee Robertson-Fant the staff started getting these weird text messages.  Saying that they were going to be our new best friends and that they were going to help us.  Next came the email the subject - cancer sucks but we suck more.  It was diabolical. It was cruel. They were brutal.  Hackers had accessed the nonprofit is server after a staffer inadvertently downloaded malware from an email. The hackers wanted 50 bitcoin or what was then about 43000 to return the data and to keep it private.  I hate to use the word traumatic but it was. I mean you just do not understand what is happening. You just - you know it is sort of an out-of-body experience where you know like - I - we just could not figure out why someone would be doing this to us.  Fant says the FBI told her they have been investigating this group of hackers - that they probably wanted sensitive information - bank accounts Social Security numbers. But Little Red Door does not keep anything like that on file. So when they decided not to pay the ransom the hackers posted what they did have.  It was pretty despicable. We send out grief letters to families and they did publish some grief letters on Twitter.  Michael Wolfe is the CTO of a local software firm.  You are only as secure as your weakest link in the chain. So you need to be prepared for what you will do if that happens because the likelihood of that happening is increasing daily.  Wolfe volunteered to help the nonprofit secure what data they could but they could not recover everything.  Yeah. So we have you know all of our files in here.  Here meaning a drawer stuffed with manila folders. The staff has spent months painstakingly entering this client information back into their computers. Patient advocate Diana Rinker has led the effort.  I have a month of back data to enter. My goal is to have it done today and we will be caught up on this end.  Rinker was herself diagnosed with cancer just before the hack. She is been on data entry duty between rounds of chemo.  It is made it a little stressful but it is so nice when our clients come in because we have not had one client that has not been understanding.  Little Red Door has struggled since the hack - and with more than just paperwork. Without all their data in hand they have not been able to get much of the grant funding that pays their bills. Michael Wolfe the software company CTO has this advice for small nonprofits.  Stop. Sit down with your board and think through some questions about - what is your IT infrastructure? Where do you store data? So I am sure that there are improvements to be made that could prevent devastation.  Hackers do not discriminate he says - no matter how small your business how noble your nonprofit is mission you are vulnerable. For NPR News I am Annie Ropeik.  