 There is a new book of exquisite short stories that form a novel that is been written by promising new fiction talent. We will Go To Coney Island tells the story of Mina and Aaron who meet and marry Rachel and Daniel whom they bring into the world - all of them struggling to breathe fresh air and find their place in the tenements of New York's lower East side - where a trip to Coney Island is a kind of a pot of gold at the end of the subway line. The author is Barbara Scheiber. She is worked as a radio producer for NBC and United Press Radio. She joins us in our studios. Barbara Scheiber is 92-years-old. Thanks so much for being with us.  Oh thank you so much Scott. It is wonderful to be here.  In many ways I gather this book begins with a photograph of a couple with - at Coney Island with their arms around each other. It is on the cover of the book.  Yeah. Yeah.  Where did you see the photo and what went off in your mind?  Well that is really an astonishing story. The picture is taken by Walker Evans who is a famous photographer. And when it was taken I was just six-years-old. But by the time I saw it I was in my late 80s. And when I saw the picture I was just astonished really.  A loving couple their arms around each other overlooking the water.  Yes. Well it looks like a very romantic couple but it is much much more than just romance.  We may have buried the lead. It is your father in the picture.  It is. That is my father. And the woman with him was his secretary at the time and his mistress. When I grew up I was aware. And that was one of the really haunting awareness's of my childhood because I visited my father's office so many times. And I just picked that up but I had never seen them together so that the picture was almost a shock because there they were as lovers.  To see that photograph in your 80s I guess it did not tell you anything you did not know. But did it make you feel like a little girl who was hurt all over again?  I think that I did feel that shock of hurt. It was not new. But I had actually never seen or experienced that closeness. What I did throughout my life was reject the idea of their closeness. I wanted to eradicate it and pretend that it really had not happened. And the other thing about the picture - it was about Coney Island. I would never been to Coney Island but Coney Island is an underlying theme of the book. It has a sense of dreams and aspiration and excitement - and the other side of it - it was dangerous. You could get really hurt. I do not even think many children went there because the rides were really scary. And I think that combination of a dream of a glorious life and fun and yet underneath it a kind of a shadow of danger - it just symbolized so much of my father's life.  Your father a little like Coney Island was a charmer who could be - help me finish the sentence - dangerous to those who loved him?  Well dangerous is a word that sounds physical and of course I do not mean that. He came from a very very impoverished background. He grew up on the lower East side of New York had no schooling taught himself law by himself. He was really an extraordinary man intellectually. And in terms of his personal charm in a sense you might say seductive but I do not know that he went out of his way to be seductive. He just had a very charming personality and was wonderful to talk with. And he was just very lovable. But the dangerous side if that is the word we are looking for was that he could not be loyal. I am not sure that he went to seeking love from many women although he was certainly susceptible to it. But actually people were so drawn to him and he did not resist. It became a pattern. And when I say danger is that you have the danger of being rejected.  Rachel the little girl narrative center for much of the book she goes away to summer camp and she reads a letter that her father apparently stuffs into the wrong envelope. And she is confused. And it makes her sick.  Yeah. That was based on a true story. Not all the stories in the book are true but most of them have a kernel of truth. That was a story that actually motivated me to start writing stories. And then the stories grew into a book. I was about 10 years old. I was away at camp. And at mail time I got a letter written in handwriting that I thought I might have seen but it did not fully recognize it. And when I opened it up that was a love letter from my father's mistress who later became his second wife. And it was mailed to me by mistake. It was put in the wrong envelope. I read it with an incredible shock - not that it was not something I did not know but I did not want to know. And I did not want to know the details. It was all covered over for me. I tore it up and I flushed it down the toilet and I never never talked to anybody about it.  Is there a section of your book you would like to read?  This is the prologue. And the prologue is called Couple At Coney Island which is the title of the picture on the cover.  A breeze hot and salty brushes against her skirt like a hand the silk touches the back of her legs. She leans closer to Aaron. They are here in public. Here in the gleaming white of this picture book place with its smells of ocean and mustard chewing gum and damp wood. She was in Aaron's office when he said I will pick you up Sunday and we will go to Coney Island. How about it? She was not sure at first if he meant this Sunday or some other Sunday or that he would show up when he said he would.  That is wonderful.  Thank you.  How did you begin to write these stories? In the acknowledgements you mentioned a writing class and it was not clear to me if that was 60 years ago or six months ago.  Well I was retirement age. So I guess I was maybe 70. So that is when I began. It is a nice feeling to know you can begin at an age when you are ending.  Barbara Scheiber she is the author of We will Go To Coney Island. Thanks so much for joining us.  Thank you Scott. This has been wonderful.  I look forward to your next book.  Oh thanks a lot very encouraging.  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 