 Let us hear another installment of the Race Card Project. That is a project curated by NPR's own Michele Norris. It invites people to send in six-word stories about race and identity. And when they compress that complicated subject down to those six words it is amazing what you hear. We unpack some of those stories once again here on MORNING EDITION including this six-word essay from North Carolina. DR.  I am Dr. Gregory McGriff and my six words are 55 miles per hour means you black man.  Fifty-five mph means you black man. Those are the six words he sent to NPR's Michele Norris who is with us once again. Hi Michele.  Hey Steve.  Provocative statement there.  And there is a lot in that story. He is calling up an image that we are all familiar with. We have all seen that 55 mph sign on the side of the road. When Dr. McGriff sent in his six words he actually was listening to a member station in North Carolina WFAE. He went to the website knew immediately what his six words would involve 55 mph. And to help us understand what he meant by those six words he sent in a little additional commentary. Let us listen to that quickly.  I am an Ivy League graduate and a board-certified medical doctor. The subject of race comes up all the time but the conversation that should follow is usually very short. When I see the speed sign on the road announcing 55 mph I know that posting is meant for me. My white counterparts proceed a bit faster.  Wow. That is a powerful statement. Why does he think 55 miles per hour is directed at him as an African-American?  It is a metaphor for a lot of things in his life. And to sort of understand who he is let us just talk a little bit about him. He now lives in Rutherfordton N.C. but he is a native of Hartford Conn. He studied economics and pre-med at the University of Pennsylvania. He went to medical school at Wake Forest did his internship at Yale his residency at UConn University of Connecticut.  Impressively qualified guy.  Very qualified. And based on that resume you would think he would be a real high-flier and yet he says that he has to move through life with great caution. He moves through life slowly - whether he is on the road or whether he is practicing medicine - because he says that any kind of display of professional confidence or sort of an overt display of success makes his colleagues or even his patients uncomfortable.  Fifty-five is slow. If you have to do 55 miles per hour all the time you are not going to get very far. And if you look around everybody else is going a little bit faster.  And you actually hear him moving slowly in this conversation picking his words carefully.  Yes.  But let me ask Michele Norris Is he being held back by other people slowed down by other people or is he slowing himself down?  Well to hear Dr. McGriff tell his own story it sounds like it is a little bit of both. He moves with great caution but he says he has great reason and he shared a specific story that he says helps illustrate this. When we contacted him he had just had an experience. He was called into the office of a hospital administrator - the hospital where he works in North Carolina - because someone had issued a complaint a patient had issued a complaint. The patient had said that the doctor had used language that was foreign to them.  A family was upset with me because I was uppity - he said words that we did not understand. And this is something that I am sure none of my partners - because I asked them they have never gotten that particular complaint. And so it is never my desire to be uppity. It is my hope rather than be condescending and speak down to anyone is that to just speak in natural language. And if there is a word or two that is a little bit above your vocabulary it is not because I am better than you. It is not because I have more education and I am certainly not trying to lord my intellect over you. I am simply trying to communicate.  He used the word uppity. That is a loaded word. The suggestion is he is being told he is trying act above his station. He is not behaving the way that he should behave.  Displaying too much ambition.  And there is a long history of using that word and that phrase a long discussion about it. So he is saying that he has to communicate with patients differently he believes because of his race.  You know he keeps talking about my white counterparts. But in that he is talking about the other physicians who practice at the hospital. And he says all of this forces him to in some ways operate almost in another lane to practice medicine differently. And I asked him about that - this sort of broad 55-mile-per-hour metaphor how it applies to him specifically in his medical practice. And this is what he told me.  I walk into a room and the first comment is well he is black. And I became aware...  Do they say that out loud? Do they say that to you or to their family members?  Well the beauty of medicine is you get to meet old people and so demented patients will have their guards down and usually will tell you what is on their mind. But I have had a few not-demented patients ask me to leave the room because I was a minority. I do not take it personally. This happens sometimes.  How do you process that?  After years of experience the initial anger that I used to feel that would last for hours now I compress it into a fleeting brief moment and then I just move on.  That is painful to listen to.  He moves on but obviously that moment still lives inside of him. And here's the irony in all of this Steve. Dr. McGriff says that having to move slower having to practice medicine differently has actually made him a better doctor. He works at a hospital. He is an admitting physician out of the emergency room. And so he practices medicine in a manner - or using a bedside manner that has now become his signature.  I make a point to do something that many of my partners do not do and most physicians do not do anymore. I sit. I sit in the room and I ask the patient to tell me their story. I am really interested in these stories by the way. But once I get their history and they are finished I conduct a brief but thorough exam. This may take about 20 to 25 minutes. And so I have a well-deserved reputation as being one of the slower physicians. But what I cannot do is I cannot walk in the room announce that I am your doctor and I am going to put you in. My partner might be able to get away with that but I cannot.  The amazing thing here Michele Norris is he sounds like exactly the kind of doctor you would want.  Yeah yeah. We always hear about doctors who are just zooming through the - you know the room taking your vitals and then he is out the door. That is not Dr. McGriff.  And they are pressured to be that way by insurance companies by demands for efficiency but he ends up doing his job better. It is amazing that a little bit of pressure would actually - he would respond by being a better person.  You know and this is a case where it obviously affects him. It is deeply painful but it is also one of life's delicious ironies.  Michele Norris is curator of the Race Card Project which has taken thousands of six-word stories from Americans including Dr. Gregory McGriff of North Carolina. Michele thanks for coming by.  It is always good to be with you Steve.  And you can hear more of Dr. McGriff's story at npr.org. This is NPR News. 