 In Hawaii worry grows after two new fissures opened up on the big island yesterday. Scientists are warning about a possible volcanic eruption. The vents are spewing toxic gases and steam. Lava has swallowed up roads and homes. Thousands living near Kilauea volcano have been evacuated. But one of those who has remained behind is Scott Wiggers. He lives on Leilani Estates. He lives just two miles from the nearest fissures. And he joins us now.  Morning Lulu.  So where are you and what have you been seeing?  I live on the far-west side of the subdivision. I do not go outside of the subdivision so I tried to make it to fissure 16 yesterday but was unable to get through because of all the sulfuric acid. Over the past 24 hours the earthquakes have started rumbling again. We just had a 4.6 or seven about an hour ago. As a matter of fact when I go out and check on some of the fissures you can start to see the sulfur deposits building up where the lava rocks actually are starting to turn yellow. Pretty amazing stuff.  Tell me about the air quality. Have you needed a respirator? I have been seeing reports of sort of respirators being sold out on the big island.  For me personally no. For those that live where the action has occurred - actually you cannot live there. Even with a respirator there is just no way. And everyone has evacuated in that area.  How worried are people? I mean I imagine some have had to be forcibly evacuated. And it is scary - sounds scary.  No one is forcibly evacuated. That is why I am still here. They will to come and drag us out of our homes. However they do not support what we are doing. And I am talking to civil defense. They do not agree with what we are doing.  Let me just end by asking you - for those of us who have never been close to something like this when you go and see these fissures I mean explain a little bit about what that feels like and what that looks like. I mean is it very hot? I mean what is it like?  The first fissure I experienced was - I think it was May 5. I woke up about 1 a.m. I heard a roar. And this is two miles away - a roar like a jet engine. I go out and look out the window. And I see the sky glowing red. I am seeing this fissure just right before my eyes open up a cinder cone being created the lava spewing in the air a hundred feet. Where I was standing - I was standing about 50 yards from that and I could feel the warmth. It was probably 90 degrees Fahrenheit. Then I went down there again after I got some of my buddies out of bed and we were standing a little closer. And just the sound the experience - the ground was shaking. It is hard to describe.  That was Scott Wiggers. Thank you very much and stay safe.  OK. Thanks Lulu. 