 Scientists around the world are racing to figure out a way to stop the spread of the coronavirus. Dozens of projects have been launched to deliver a vaccine as quickly as possible. NPR's Melissa Block spent the day with a virologist one of those tasked with trying to unlock the virus' secrets.  Christopher Mores is no stranger to pathogens.  I have always liked the idea of hunting the thing that wants to hunt us.  So his work over the years has brought him up close to lots of dangerous viruses.  Eastern encephalitis.  Also West Nile.  Lots of work on dengue.  There was Chikungunya and Zika.  Of course I was in Sierra Leone for Ebola.  And now this new coronavirus a microbe of mystery.  The speed with which this thing wrapped itself around the world has just been remarkable to behold. I mean it is - that was shocking for me to see how fast it went.  Mores is director of a brand-new lab devoted to the research of highly infectious diseases. It is part of the George Washington University's School of Public Health in Washington D.C. Coincidentally his lab opened on March 24 when COVID-19 cases were spreading quickly throughout the U.S. So Mores and his team scrapped the work they had originally planned. Now they devote all their time to figuring out this new virus and that earns them the gratitude of their co-workers at GW.  Feeling good today?  We are winning man. We are winning. So...  You better be.  .  All right take care.  Mores is in talks with biotech companies to help test the effectiveness of eventual vaccine candidates. His team is also working on diagnostic and antibody tests. The way he describes his research into the coronavirus it sounds kind of like a chess match.  It is like how do you figure out what it is going to do and your best move against it in real time? That is what an outbreak gives you.  He says he is looking for the virus to screw up to show him something he needs to defeat it. And this pathogen has proved itself to be a wily adversary.  There is plenty of viruses that are far deadlier but it is still a very dangerous virus and it is wildly transmissible wildly transmissible. And so this thing's pretty darn good.  What is stunning to think about Mores says is that something so genetically simple has managed to bring the planet to its knees.  It is such a tiny piece of nucleic acid. It is infinitesimal compared to the size of the human genome. And yet it can just totally unravel us. Those are the things that really give me pause sometimes. Like wow how could this thing with so few genes and so little room to move figure us out so well? I do not know. I think that is worth respecting  So...  Mores typically works 14-hour days in the lab fueled by a constant infusion of coffee.  It is just about 10 oclock.  Ten a.m. And how many cups?   It is probably three now. So...  Mores leads a team of six research associates and grad students.  Kareem what is up man?  Including Kareem Kabra. They are throwing everything they can think of at this virus.  It would be an elegant study if we could actually get like a spike protein so we can actually compare on two different plates.  I think that is a good idea.  Every day Mores is reminded of the urgency of this fight against the virus.  We have to figure out - it does not care. It is just doing its thing. It is just replicating its RNA. But can we be smart enough to see what it is made of and what this is going to do to us before it just goes full-bore and takes full advantage of every one of the people on Earth it can get into? And it is up to us to figure it out. It is a puzzle.  Now experts have predicted an outbreak like this one for years. What is surprising and really depressing Mores says is our response.  We see ourselves trying to confront this global threat in probably the most fragmented way ever - every country for itself and in this country it is every state for itself quite clearly. That is all very sad. It is very sad to see. You know all that does is it turns up the mayhem and death dial to maximum and why every day I go into work and try and dial it back a bit . So...  As we plot our way forward Mores says it is crucial that we remember the lessons learned along the way.  We want to get back to normal absolutely. Everyone needs to go back to school back to work back to whatever the hell they did before this. But it cannot be to the point of amnesia. You know we have to still hold some of these scars close and say let us not have this happen again.  Because if there is one thing we do know Mores warns is that this will not be the last outbreak we are going to have to confront. Melissa Block NPR News Washington.  