 Let us bring in our political brain trust NPR national political correspondent Mara Liasson. Mara good morning.  Good morning Steve.  And our political editor Ken Rudin. Ken welcome back.  Good morning.  We bring you back once again.  Why?  We take the chance of doing so.   Okay so we heard what Mitt Romney had to say in Michigan. How are people responding to this?  Well judging from the initial reaction from conservative pundits Romney has not solved his health care problem yet. The Wall Street Journal wrote that he should either apologize for his bill or knockoff Joe Biden and get on the ticket with Barack Obama.  Ooh.  Ouch. For a lot of conservatives this a fundamental debate about the role of government. And while Romney gave a very articulate defense of the individual mandate - it is necessary to stop free riders in the system - conservatives and certainly the Tea Party people - who are going to vote in great force in the primaries - see this as a matter of first principles. And to them the individual mandate violates individual freedom.  Ken Rudin.  And one of the reasons Romney cannot walk away from his views on health care is because he is been accused of walking away from his positions of the past. He was pro-choice on abortion when he ran against Ted Kennedy for the Senate. When he ran for the governor of Massachusetts he was pro-civil unions. So he has a reputation of shifting positions to run for president and he certainly cannot do that with this issue.  You know the most sympathetic commentary that I have heard about Romney suggests that he attempts to explain nuance positions and that he ends up sounding like he is waffling and talking out of both sides of his mouth. That is the most sympathetic description of him that I have heard.  Well you remember the famous speech he gave in 2007 about his religion. It is really not religion that is going to hurt Mitt Romney it is really Mitt Romney's past.  Well Mitt Romney has yet to formally jump in the race but Newt Gingrich of course became a candidate this week. Congressman Ron Paul of Texas became a candidate today. How do they affect the race here?  Well not much if you look at the polls. I mean what is interesting about Ron Paul is that of course we always talk about how much money he can raise and he can raise a ton of money. And he has a very serious fervent following on the internet but it does not translate into votes in the primaries and caucuses. However this is a different Republican Party in 2012 than we saw in 2008. It is more anti-government more distrustful of government and perhaps Ron Paul at age 75 could still make a difference. Still the negatives on Newt Gingrich have not gone away the three marriages the two divorces the ego. Yes he is a man of ideas of course he is been out of public office since 1998 when he resigned as Speaker but he is showing really no much movement in the polls.  Mara Liasson  But you know I do think that even though are huge questions about Newt Gingrich's personal life and whether he has the discipline to conduct this kind of a campaign he is going to be a big force in the field an intellectual force and I think he will be in the debates. I mean the joke about Gingrich is that he has 100 ideas every day and 99 of them are terrible but one of them is really good and I do think that he will be an intellectual force in the GOP primary.  Let me ask about another possible candidate who has yet to jump in Mitch Daniels governor of Indiana was on this program not long ago. We asked him how he was going to decide to run or not and he said maybe flip a coin. Do we know anything more about his decision process here?  We do not know anything more about what he is going to do but last night his wife who was very reticent about participating in politics Cheri Daniels she did speak at an Indiana State Republican Party dinner. We found out that she is smart and funny and charming. We did not find out if her husband is going to run for president although he says he is going to decide very very soon.  Can I just mention Peggy Noonan former President Reagan speech writer had a column in which she discussed some of the candidates. The only candidate she seemed to be really get - really really get enthused about was Chris Christie of New Jersey the New Jersey governor who has said he is absolutely definitely not going to run and yet he seems to have more enthusiasm behind him than the people who are running or considering running.  Well that is one of the reasons everybody loves him because he is not running. He is really not that much of a conservative. He is really - on many issues he is not a strong conservative like others in the field. However you know he is the kind of guy who is angry who is tough who is combative he stands up to the unions and a lot of Tea Party folks really like that anger that we have seen a lot in 2010.  One other quick...  You know that is...  Go ahead.  No I was just going to say that that really symbolizes something else that is happening in the Republican field. It is not unusual at this point but people are not happy with their choices Republican voters are not. They are looking for Chris Christie or they are looking for a Paul Ryan the Republican budget chair or they want Mitch Daniels to come in as an establishment alternative to Mitt Romney.  It was a Donald - remember the Donald Trump moment that lasted for about 10 seconds.  Yeah.  Or days even days. People are casting around for candidates. That is what you are saying.  People are definitely casting about for candidates. This field has not formed yet.  We have just got a couple of seconds here. There is a special election May 24 western New York where a Republican Congressman in a scandal had to resign. Could that indicate anything about the way the public is thinking?  Well in previous special elections it is always about the referendum on the president - now President Obama in this case. But now it seems to be a referendum on the Republican Party and Paul Ryan's plans to change Medicare. Republicans are nervous about this.  OK. Thanks very much Ken Rudin appreciate it.  Thank you.  And NPR's Mara Liasson thanks to you.  Thank you.  Our political brain trust on MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 