 For people that want to get their exercise on bikes they no longer have to own one to ride one. In a number of big cities they have introduced bike-sharing schemes. Jacob Fenston reports on the nation's largest in Washington D.C.  It seemed like overnight all of a sudden these funny-looking bikes were everywhere.  Well you have probably seen them. They are just a big red bike.  I do not want to say Dorky. They are thick.  They are really distinctive.  They are big.  They are crowding the bike lane lining up at intersections dodging traffic and the people who ride them cannot get enough.  I use it at least once a day if not more.  I go to meetings for work I use it to go to the grocery store I used to see a concert at 30 Club.  Running my errands or biking to dinner with friends.  Mostly I use it for commuting.  I try to everyday if it is not raining.  D.C. installed the system just over eight months ago with about a thousand of these red bikes scattered across the city. The idea is simple Check out a bike at any of the high-tech solar-powered stations...   ...pedal across town and drop it off at any other station It is public transportation on a bicycle. Mr.  I look at it as two-wheel buses.  Paul DeMaio is a bit of a bikesharing zealot. He was into sharing bikes way before it was cool. Back in 1995 he was up late one night in college even before. Mr.  Even before Google was out I was Yahooing and came across some photographs of Copenhagen's Bycyklen or city bike program and just said we need this in the U.S. we need this everywhere.  The next semester he took off to Copenhagen to study these amazing Bycyklen. And that was the start of his bikesharing crusade. A few years later he quite his day job and started a business as a bikeshare consultant. The system here is one of his clients. Mr.  You know right now for the most part driving is easy and that is why people do it. And so if we make bicycling easy people will do it.  And here in D.C. people are doing it. The system now has 12000 members. Many of them were not biking at all before.  I have not owed a bike in probably 20 years.  I do this instead because it is cheaper.  Because my apartment's too small to have a bike in it.  I have had two bikes stolen.  My bike was stolen.  And I have had a bike in the city a few years back that was stolen.  The main complaint people have about the BikeShare system is that some many people are using it it can be impossible to find a bike especially at rush hour. Mr.  There are not enough docks at a station there are not enough stations around the city there are not enough bikes.  Daniel Gohlke used to bikeshare to work - but now he walks because he can never find a bike. Of course not everyone wants a shiny red bicycle. Mr.  I am hard-pressed really to understand the advantages of it.  Jeff Miller. We are in Arlington Virginia a D.C. suburb that is part of the BikeShare system. Miller's a spokesman for the Arlington Republican Party and lately he is the public face of BikeShare opposition. Mr.  The taxpayers are subsidizing 7000 per bicycle for the startup costs of this system. For 7000 we could be buying 700 bicycles and giving them away.  These indestructible bikes cost about a thousand dollars each plus the cost of the bike stations. The District of Columbia got a federal air quality grant to cover most of the first three years. Tommy Wells is a D.C. city councilmember and a die-hard bike commuter. He says investing in bikesharing is well worth it for the number of people its gotten riding bikes. Mr.  There is always going to be groups of grumpy folks that came up during a time when streets were only for cars. And so they are going to have to adapt.  Whether you think it sounds like fun or a waste of money bikesharing may be coming to a city near you. Already about 10 U.S. cities are sharing bikes. Now Boston is planning to launch this summer. San Francisco has a regional system in works. And New York City is looking to rollout some 10000 shared bikes early next year.   For NPR News I am Jacob Fenston.  This is NPR News. 