 This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am David Greene.  And I am Steve Inskeep. Good morning. Egyptians are at the polls again today at least those who are voting in a presidential election that is considered predictable. Former military chief Abdel Fattah al-Sisi is expected to be Egypt's next President. NPR's Leila Fadel is covering Egypt's election from Cairo. Hi Leila.  Hi.  So how are the elections going?  Well so far like you said it is all been pretty predictable actually quite boring. People saying the same things at every polling station the people that are there that they are going to vote for Sisi that he is the savior of Egypt. But it is clear that the government is pretty worried about turnout because they declared today a national holiday. The private channels that support Sisi are basically yelling at citizens to go out to the polls - some equating not voting to treason. So there is a clear concern that there will not be a huge turnout to ringingly endorse Sisi as President.  Well let us remember we have got two days of voting here. There are two candidates - two candidates were allowed. You profiled the challenger here on  but he is not given really any chance at all. So is the big question here simply how many votes Sisi is able to pile up?  Yeah this is the first real test of Sisi's popularity. It is been said here that he is hugely popular that he will unify Egypt. But a recent poll from the Pew Research Center shows that only 54 percent of Egyptians view Sisi favorably. So he is really concerned and the authorities are concerned that Egyptians will not come out en masse and vote for him.  I suppose we should mention 54 percent approval rating is actually not that bad for an American politician. But you are saying that the Egyptian government is concerned because there is been virtually no opposition allowed and their worried that other 46 percent or more will not even show up. Is that right?  Yeah I mean there is a huge and strong minority that is boycotting this vote that are sitting at home not ready to participate. We spoke to Issandr El Amrani the head of the International Crisis Group's North Africa project about this.  We were dealing with such fundamentally opposed views of what the election is about and such polarization in Egyptian society. So yes turnout figures do indicate to some degree the extent of buy-in in the wider population today.  Leila Fadel I do not mean to be flip here but is there a fair population of the Egyptian electorate that is actually in prison or fearful of it right now?  Of course. I mean this is a place where now free assembly is not possible. There is a law that bans you from gathering in 10 or more people at a time. Unless of course you are outside of a polling station dancing. That is OK. But we have seen thousands and thousands of people jailed because they protest from human rights lawyers to Islamists to long-term youth activists journalists - they are all in jail. And so it is not that maybe the process will be completely unfair. It is that it is going on in a political atmosphere where dissent is not acceptable.  You said dancing was OK. Are people actually dancing?  In the city in Cairo we did see some dancing outside polling stations people singing about God country and army. There are some people extremely happy about this maybe a majority of Egyptians. But then there is also this strong minority of dissent. I visited a town right outside of Cairo called Kerdasa a very restive town a very defiant town. The polling stations were empty there. They were also on the outskirts of town. And right as we are walking into the polling station you see the words on the wall boycott the killers. We spoke to people in the town who said we are pretty much all boycotting because they are arresting and killing people every day the people that are about to be elected.  Any fear of fraud by the government to ensure a satisfactory result?  There is not really concern about mass rigging. The military here is a hugely popular institution and an institution that Sisi once led. The bigger concern observers say is the political atmosphere that we were talking about. We spoke to the president of Democracy International Eric Bjornlund about that.  There've been issues with respect to peaceful protest and to political organizing and to the ability for certain groups to operate legally in the country. So we remain concerned about that political climate that the election's taking place in.  So basically the bigger issue is are you giving mandate to a sham election even if it is not being rigged here?  That is NPR's Leila Fadel in Cairo. Leila thanks.  Thank you. 