 Five Democrats are competing to win the party's nomination for governor of Virginia. One of those candidates is Virginia's lieutenant governor Justin Fairfax. In 2019 two women accused him of sexual assault. But those accusations which Fairfax has repeatedly denied have not forced him out of office or out of the race for governor. Here's Ben Paviour from member station VPM in Richmond.  Two years after two women came forward to accuse him of sexual assault Virginia lieutenant governor Justin Fairfax maintains his innocence.  It is an incredible miscarriage of justice to falsely accuse someone of these types of crimes and there be no accountability.  In 2019 Fairfax ordered and passed two polygraph tests. His legal team has pointed out what they say are inconsistencies in his accusers' stories. Fairfax has also connected the allegations against him to larger injustices against Black men. Here he is on the debate stage last month laying into the front-runner in the race former Virginia governor Terry McAuliffe.   He treated me like George Floyd he treated me like Emmett Till - no due process immediately assumed my guilt.  And some of his supporters agree.  People really get intimidated when you can articulate and move forward and make things happen.  Tommy Bennett is a Democratic Party activist in Danville a small southern Virginia city. Bennett says the lieutenant governor was targeted by his political enemies because he is a Black man on the rise.  He sort of sound like Barack Obama when he started.  But the lieutenant governor has not raised much money. And he trails McAuliffe the leading Democrat by some 40 points. That has not dissuaded Bennett.  He still can pull it off.  Even if the accusations from February 2019 are hanging over his campaign. That is when the two Black women came forward. Vanessa Tyson accused Fairfax of sexually assaulting her in 2004. Two days later Meredith Watson accused Fairfax of raping her in 2000 while they were students at Duke University. The lieutenant governor says the encounters were consensual and repeatedly called for investigations by law enforcement. And he says the accusations are politically motivated.  It becomes a complete injustice and one that mirrors a history of racial injustice.  Neither Tyson nor Watson agreed to comment for this story. Fairfax says their refusal to publicly respond to his rebuttals undermines their credibility. Debra Katz an attorney representing Tyson says her client stands by her claims. She says Fairfax is trying to intimidate his accusers.  The fact that Justin Fairfax is still here seems to be exactly what politicians are doing these days.  Katz has represented women involved in high-profile sexual misconduct accusations including ones involving Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh and New York Governor Andrew Cuomo. She says they represent a troubling trend in the MeToo movement.  Act completely indignant never apologize cede no ground. And to the extent that there is an apology as in the case of Cuomo it is I am sorry you felt bad.  Katz says the MeToo movement scored some important victories.  And yet we are in a pandemic now. Priorities have shifted and there is less of an urgency it seems.  Still in Virginia many Democrats keep Justin Fairfax at arm's length.  A lot of people think if you ignore Justin then he will just go away.  Adele McClure is Fairfax's former policy director.  And trust me. Like I definitely hoped that that was the case so I would not have to be speaking to you right now.  McClure now serves as director of Virginia's Legislative Black Caucus. She says she is speaking out because she is worried Fairfax uses his public office to bully his accusers.  He cannot wait to get to that governor's office because not only does he feel entitled to it but he knows that he can wield even greater power over those who spoke against him.  Fairfax through an attorney alleged to NPR that McClure is speaking out because she is supporting a different candidate. McClure has not made any public endorsements. She says before she resigned as Fairfax's policy director she wanted to believe in a man she once considered a friend.  I put everything into defending Justin and stood by loyally and just felt completely betrayed.  McClure says she began to lose faith in Fairfax after Tyson released a statement. McClure found it compelling and alleges other staff worked to undermine Tyson.  And they were desperately desperately throughout the week trying to catch her in a lie to discredit her.  McClure alleges they considered a plan that called for using Black women and anonymous social media accounts to question Tyson's credibility.  I was just like no we cannot attack - we cannot attack her.  McClure says she thought the plan was later dropped. Fairfax did not respond to NPR's questions about McClure's account. His former chief of staff Larry Roberts said he did not recall those conversations and would not have backed that kind of plan. Fairfax has used Twitter to call out the women by name labeling them false accusers. Debra Katz the attorney who represents Tyson says others have seemed to follow Fairfax's lead. She is noticed a handful of anonymous accounts that attack the lieutenant governor's critics. NPR has not confirmed who is behind the accounts.  I believe that this is a weaponized use of Twitter and social media and I believe it is part of coordinated campaigns. And it does have a chilling effect on women.   We are going to win and win big in 2021 with your help. Thank you all so much. God bless you all.   Fairfax has had a busy spring. He is crisscrossed the state in a low-key low-budget campaign focused on education and racial justice. Still the accusations are on voters' minds. Monica Hutchinson is a Democratic Party activist who lives outside of Richmond. She says whether the accusations against Fairfax are true or not...  We cannot have anybody be the head of our state with anything - with any dark cloud like that hanging over their head.  Instead Hutchinson is backing state Senator Jennifer McClellan. McClellan and another candidate Jennifer Carroll Foy are running to become the first Black women elected governor in the U.S. Hutchinson says Black women are ready for a change.  Every single election we show up. But when it is time to pay it back to let Black women lead there is always a but but but. And Black women are tired of it.  It is not clear what Fairfax will do if he loses the primary. Either way he says he plans on continuing a career in public service. For NPR News I am Ben Paviour in Richmond.  