 Reporter Gloria Hillard recently spent a recent night with outreach workers on the streets of Hollywood that is home to hundreds of kids.  It is that moment between dusk and nightfall on Hollywood Boulevard - when neon blooms a little brighter and the small swarms of tourists start to disperse. Now you notice the figures huddled against the buildings a hand touching the air. Moises Cabrera spots the signal and pulls the long van to the curb.  Mischa how you doing?  Good.  You guys all right?  Sorry. .  In his two years as an outreach worker for the non-profit Covenant House Cabrera knows many of the homeless kids on these streets and their stories. The vehicle with a bright logo is the one constant on these uncertain streets. The van always has peanut butter and jelly sandwiches and maybe a just-in-time sweatshirt or new pair of socks. Tonight Mischa and her companions just need water and blankets.  No sandwiches though. You guys are good?  No I just need a blanket.  Okay.  Did you want a sandwich?  Mischa a tall reddish-blonde lingers. She says her last name is Meadows she is 20 years old and from Florida.   What brought you here?  Work. I was a model I came out here for a photo shoot.  So where are you living?  On the street wherever.  For the last year?  Yeah.  The homeless youth have a knack for appearing suddenly. A kid in a baseball cap is now standing at the open window delivered by his skateboard.  You have sandwiches?  Yeah man. What is up?  Can I have one please?  Yeah. Are you all right?  Yeah man.  Cabrera says the teen's street name is Shenanigan. Sometimes they will tell you their real names. These are youths he says who are estranged from their families because they are gay or have suffered abuse or neglect. They still long for family so here they make their own.  They feel safer that way. And they call themselves a family you know. And you know they do not want to be broken apart.  The van turns down another block and three kids flag us down. Hailey Russell's hair is pulled back with a rubber band. She has chipped finger nail polish and a nose ring. She is from Connecticut and met up with her companions - Jeff with a banjo and Aaron with a guitar - in Hollywood. They plan to get a house together but for now they sleep where they can.  Yeah it was under the freeway a couple of nights ago. Where were we last night? Last night we were on Sunset Boulevard behind some bushes.  Outreach workers say youth come to Hollywood because they believe it can offer them their best second chance. At the very least Cabrera says it is a familiar place.  They see it on TV. They want to be here. They want to see the stars or maybe they want to make it in the music industry or the movie industry.  But those hopes do not last long according to outreach Director Erik Burris.  For a young person at the age of 18 just hopping off the Greyhound the dream can be shattered quickly.  The van turns into a small mini-mall. There is a donut shop and in a corner next to an adult book store there are two guys and a girl. They wave off the van a sign that they are working. Burris says it starts as survival sex - trading sex for money food or a place to sleep.  There tends to be quite a bit of substance use going on when they are literally living on the streets. It is self-medicating or coping to make it not so awful.  Just before 10 p.m. in Hollywood Josh Meriman is at the van's window. You might mistake him for a popular teen actor a closer look reveals that his dirty blond hair is just that - dirty. He is barefoot and the polyester jogging suit he is wearing does not fit his age or body.   Yes I want to do something awesome in L.A. I want to do something big in L.A. but...  The 20-year-old says he is from New Mexico. He came here hoping he would land a job at a theme park like Universal Studios. But things just did not work out.  I am stuck here at the bottom finding my way up. You cannot go down any further than you are already at so I can only succeed from here.  For NPR News I am Gloria Hillard.   You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 