 Is it time for states to reopen their economies? President Trump really wants it to happen. But the question is whether or not it is safe.  And there is a way to answer that. You test people - right? - for COVID-19. But are states testing enough people? Well a Harvard analysis conducted exclusively for NPR suggests the answer broadly is no.  NPR science reporter Rob Stein has the details of that analysis. Good morning Rob.  Good morning Noel.  So what does it show us?  It is based on estimates of the size of each state's outbreak how much testing they are doing and how much testing they would need to do to keep their outbreaks from you know spinning out of control. The Harvard analysis found nine states do seem to be doing at least the bare minimum amount of testing they would need to reopen. But the other 41 states plus the District of Columbia are still not doing enough testing according to this analysis and many are not even close. That means it would be super risky to relax those shutdowns to restart their economies.  I know we have asked you this a million times but it does seem like something that we need to keep repeating. Why is testing so important?  Yeah. You know without enough testing there is no way to make sure you can spot new infections quickly and keep the virus from roaring back in places where it is under control or you know protect places that have not been hit hard yet because the virus is still out there and most people are still vulnerable. So as states reopen new infections could easily jump. Here's a Ashish Jha. He runs the Harvard Global Health Institute which did the analysis with NPR.  As cases really start climbing hospitals start getting filled up and many many thousands of people will end up getting sick and dying. And ultimately I am deeply worried that four six eight weeks down the road we are going to find ourselves in the exact same place we were in in early March and we will have to shut the economy down again.  Now you know the amount of testing needed varies from state to state depending on the size of their outbreaks. But some states are starting to relax you know like Georgia Florida Texas Arizona Colorado even though they are not doing the bare minimum.  Rob you said 41 states are not doing enough testing. What about the nine that are?  Yeah that is right. These nine states look like they are doing the bare minimum testing they need or are very close. They are Alaska Hawaii Montana North Dakota Oregon Tennessee Utah Wyoming and West Virginia. But it is important to understand what that means and what it does not mean. It means they are doing the minimum amount of testing needed. It does not mean everyone who wants or even really needs a test is getting it not even close. It just means it looks like they could be doing enough testing to keep the outbreak under control if they do try to ease up.  And so does that mean that those nine states could safely reopen at this point?  You know unfortunately the answer to that is probably not. You know first of all testing is far from the only criteria you need for opening up. For example states have to see a decline in cases for at least two weeks and testing is just one weapon necessary to keep the virus in check. States also need to have enough health workers to you know track down and test all the people who have had any contact with anyone who is infected and might have caught the virus. This analysis is based on the assumption that states have to test at least 10 contacts for every new case and very few states have anything close to that capacity. Here's Ashish Jha again from Harvard.  For states that look like they are meeting their goals I would not take that as too much comfort because the number of cases will start going up. This is not the goal you want to hit and then say OK we are good we are done. This is the goal you want to hit and say OK now we can start.  You know start reopening but make sure they continue to ramp up testing and have enough of those contact tracers.  NPR's Rob Stein. Thanks for the reporting Rob.  You bet Noel.   Two months ago a 25-year-old black man named Ahmaud Arbery went running in a quiet neighborhood in southeast Georgia. At some point a pickup truck started following him.  Inside were two white men a father and son. They were armed Arbery was not and he did not make it back alive. For two months this was not widely known. No one has been arrested. Then this week someone - we do not know who - released a video of the shooting. There've been two straight days of protests in the city of Brunswick where this happened.    Justice delayed.   Justice denied.   Justice delayed.   Justice denied.   Justice delayed.  Emily Jones of Georgia Public Broadcasting has been following this story. Good morning Emily.  Good morning.  What do we know happened?  So Ahmaud Arbery was out for a jog and Gregory McMichael saw him running by and called his son Travis McMichael. They got their guns hopped in a pickup truck and confronted Arbery. And then one of the men Travis McMichael allegedly shot him.  And they say they shot him. Travis McMichael says he shot him. Why?  They say there would been a string of break-ins in the neighborhood and that he would been captured by security cameras and they were making a citizen's arrest. But one of the organizers of the protests for the last couple days Travis Riddle says that that argument does not really make much sense.  What warrants you to take - you to be the judge the prosecutor and the officer? You convict this man and gave him death before he was even tried.  And at yesterday's protest they were actually handing out running bibs that had the hashtag IRunWithMaud on them because they are really just trying to emphasize that this was a person out for a run like many people do.  This happened two months ago in late February. Why have not the authorities there done anything?  That is the major question and source of anger around this case. One reason for it is procedural. Two district attorneys have had to remove themselves from the case because one of the men who confronted Arbery Gregory McMichael worked as an investigator in the Brunswick DA's office for more than 20 years. But the protesters and lawyers for the family also say that police were slow to act because McMichael used to work in local law enforcement and still has ties to the police and the DA's office. In fact the family's lawyer says the whole system in the area is compromised and federal authorities should step in. They have even asked the Justice Department to begin to investigate.  You have been talking to people in Brunswick Ga. What are they saying about the shooting and about the fallout from it?  There is been a lot of anger on social media since it happened but now that the video has come out this week that shows the shooting it is really inflamed the community. And interestingly it is really fueled outrage outside the bounds of the usual places. A lot of people across the racial and political spectrum are calling for justice and questioning why the McMichaels were not arrested. But for Arbery's mom Wanda Cooper Jones it is personal. And more than two months later it is still raw.  He had ambitions. I mean he had plans. Ahmaud was still young. He had dreams that was not fulfilled. And he loved life. He loved life.  Emily do we expect a resolution to this anytime soon?  That is hard to say. This week the Georgia Bureau of Investigation stepped in and they are looking into the case but they say they are asking for patience. They say it could take some time.  Emily Jones is Savannah bureau chief for Georgia Public Broadcasting. Thank you Emily.  Thank you.   OK. A small number of students in Montana will go back to their classes today.  That is right. The governor in Montana Steve Bullock says they can reopen because the state's coronavirus case numbers have gone down over the past few weeks. We should say President Trump has been urging schools to reopen soon as part of his push to restart the economy. But the president suggested that teachers over 60 years old could stay home.  Anya Kamenetz from NPR's education team has been watching this one. Good morning Anya.  Morning Noel.  So which schools in Montana are we talking about?  We are talking about a very small handful of rural schools that are opening up on a voluntary basis. So in Libby which is a town that has one middlehigh school students are allowed to come in and meet face to face with teachers in groups with no more than four. And the superintendent Craig Barringer told me he was concerned that the younger students would not be able to come in because they cannot maintain that social distance.  It is hard to expect a 7-year-old to when they see their teacher not want to give them a hug.  Fair enough. OK. So we are talking about rural places. We are talking about small places. How does this reopening in Montana compare to what is going on across the country?  Well no one else is opening school doors yet. And what I am seeing is there is really big gaps actually between what state and federal leaders are calling for and what educators themselves think is actually feasible. So for example in California Governor Gavin Newsom said oh maybe we could open it up for summer school as soon as July. And then immediately the heads of Sacramento and Palo Alto public schools pushed back and said you know what? We might actually open later in the fall than we normally do. And similarly in Georgia obviously Brian Kemp the governor has opened up some businesses. But in fact some districts have been ending their school years early and kind of quitting their efforts with remote learning.  President Trump made this comment about schools should reopen but teachers over 60 can stay home because they would be at risk. You talked to some teachers about that right?  I did. I talked to Larry Ferlazzo. He is a 60-year-old high school teacher in Sacramento.  I mean I do not see myself as vulnerable or old  you know for one and you know teaching - I view teaching as a vocation.  So he and other teachers I have heard from say of course they are worried about their health. But the idea of being sidelined without having - being able to make a choice is a really big blow. And you know we have been hearing from all sides. The American Federation of Teachers the big teacher union as well as the American Enterprise Institute the conservative think tank have both put out detailed plans for reopening that include a lot as far as where you would need to be with what we are hearing about. You know you need testing. You need contact tracing as well as social distancing and lots of hygiene and cleaning.  So there are game plans in place already.  Yes. But the more you dig into the details here the more you just realize how daunting of an effort this is going to be. You know Randi Weingarten of the AFT called it a logistical nightmare. So for example you know if you have smaller classes you need staggered schedules. That means you are doing remote learning and - in parallel with in-person classes. And you know let us not forget this is a social and an economic disaster. It is not just learning loss. We have got students being traumatized some have lost family members. A survey just yesterday showed a huge jump in child hunger. And when schools come back in session all of this is going to be on their agenda.  Yeah. NPR's Anya Kamenetz. Thanks Anya.  Thank you. 