 There is a new church here in the United States that is growing rapidly the Redeemed Christian Church of God. This ambitious Nigerian denomination has established its North American headquarters in Texas. And as NPR's John Burnett reports its goal is nothing less than becoming the next major global religion.  On a Sunday morning inside a storefront church in Austin called Salvation Center the worship service exudes the unmistakable spirit of West Africa.   The congregation is mostly from Nigeria because that is where this church originated. The message from the bald heavy-lidded pastor Doyin Oke is one of prosperity through faith.   You will flourish.  Amen.  You will be great.  Amen.  You will be well.  Amen.  Whatever you touch shall prosper.  Amen.  In the name of Jesus.  Amen.  This church located in a featureless office park in north Austin is one of 758 congregations in North America of the Redeemed Christian Church of God. The style of worship is musical energetic and emotional.   Let me be at the right place. And I am sure that the Lord calls me to be at the right place at the right time.  This Pentecostal movement began 62 years ago in a Lagos shantytown and is currently led by a Nigerian mathematics professor turned preacher named Enoch Adeboye. The RCCG as it is known claims to have a presence in more than half the world's countries. It is a lofty goal is to have a member of the church in every household in the world. The monthly Holy Ghost Service in Lagos routinely draws half a million people. And it is said there is a church within five minutes walking distance from most Nigerians. In America their goal is to have RCCG churches in every city no more than 15 minutes' drive from each other. They are currently adding about 100 new churches a year according to James Fadele. He is a former auto engineer who is chairman of RCCG's North American operations located in farmland northeast of Dallas.  In North America we say yes we are happy. But with my boss in Nigeria 100 churches a year is just it is a child's play. What he expects from us is maybe like a thousand churches a year. Then he will say yes you are doing a good job. But right now he will always tell us that we can do better.  The Redeemed Christian Church of God has learned it is a lot easier to start churches in Nigeria than it is in America. First there are not enough trained qualified ministers. Then there is the expense of getting an American congregation to tithe enough to pay church expenses. And finally Nigerians at home seem closer to God. Life is harder there. People pray over everything from a hospital stay to a traffic jam. James Fadele says Africans in America are more comfortable.  What do I need God for? I wake up in the morning the radio is already broadcasting to me you know how my stock is doing. You know is it going up or down? The road is good. You know when I get inside my house the heater is working. My children are well-educated. They are doing very good. What I need God for?  Though the number of non-African worshipers is growing up to now the RCCG in America has largely depended on African immigrants to fill its seats on Sunday mornings. Worshipers like Polycarp Ahigbe a 36-year-old Nigerian-born mortgage banker in Houston. For him an African style service makes him feel at home.  If I ask you to pray right now for example you are going to pray and pray like this. Oh father Lord we want to give you praise. Thank you Jesus. Thank you blah blah stuff like that as quiet and simple as possible. But we Africans we pray differently. You know we yell a little bit. Thank you Jesus father you know. Kind of like express it with all of our life with zeal.  The long-term challenge is how to convert an immigrant church into an American church. But RCCG elders do not seem particularly worried. Again Doyin Oke the pastor of Salvation Center in Austin.  My goal is to have a vibrant Bible- God-believing church whether it is American flavored or Hispanic flavored or African flavored as far as the people know who their God is.  History and experience favor the RCCG. There was a time after all when Lutherans and Episcopalians were immigrant churches in America. Philip Jenkins is a professor at the Institute for Studies of Religion at Baylor University. He is followed the meteoric growth of the RCCG.  If you went to a like an Italian Catholic parish or Polish Catholic parish in 1900 you would think well these people are never ever going to assimilate. You know I have good friends who are Mohawks who think all these churches were immigrant churches you know.  The assimilation of the Redeemed Christian Church of God in America has begun. Cene Abrams is an African-American university administrator in Austin who grew up in the Methodist Church and now attends RCCG.  It was not the African culture necessarily that interests me. It may have been intriguing in the beginning but it is because that they preach the word of God.   Let us give him praise. Let us give him praise.  It is anyone's guess if the RCCG will reach its goal of having churches 15 minutes away from each other. But there is no question this Nigerian denomination has arrived. Next summer the Redeemed Christian Church of God is planning to hold a Holy Ghost Service in Yankee Stadium. John Burnett. NPR News.   Thank you Jesus. 