  Fighting continues in the Gaza Strip.  Rockets lit up the sky again overnight and street fighting between Palestinians and Jews extended into the West Bank.  The number of casualties is likely to increase. I am Scott Simon.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.  President Biden says little publicly about the escalating Mideast conflict.   My expectation and hope is that this will be closing down sooner than later.  We will hear what the administration is doing behind the scenes.  Plus the CDC says most fully vaccinated people no longer need to wear a mask.  But that has led to some confusion and concern.  Stay with us. We have all the news you need to start your weekend.   The U.S. State Department envoy is in the Middle East seeking ways to try to calm the fighting between Israel and Palestinian militants.  Yesterday Israel added artillery fire to the hundreds of airstrikes that toppled buildings inside the Gaza Strip where at least 139 people have died a count that includes many children.  Fighters in Gaza have fired thousands of rockets into Israel killing at least eight people there. NPR's Daniel Estrin joins us from Jerusalem. Daniel thanks for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  And what is been going on in Gaza overnight and today?  Palestinian rocket fire from Gaza has been raining down on Israel 2000 rockets launched at Israel so far overall. A 5-year-old child was killed several days ago when he was in his bomb shelter. A rocket hit it. It did not save him. And air-raid sirens in Israel continue. There have been sirens this morning in the Tel Aviv metropolitan area. And the Israeli bombardment of Gaza also continues. Israeli planes bombed a home. And my colleague in Gaza Anas Baba spoke to the neighbors of that home. And they said that a family got a call from Israel warning to leave the home warning that it would be bombed. The father ran out to warn the other neighbors to try to find a car to drive them away. The rest of the family ran to a nearby home. And that home was bombed. And Gaza officials say 10 people from the same extended family died there including two women eight children. A search is underway for missing people under the rubble. The only survivor of the attack was a young baby found in his dead mother's arms.  And Israel keeps increasing the firepower concentrated on Gaza do not they? Could this continue to escalate?  Well this is pressing on. Israel has a bank of targets. It is continuing its campaign assassinating Hamas and Islamic Jihad militants destroying rocket launchers. One thing to look at and to be concerned about is a possible humanitarian crisis that could develop. Already electricity is in short supply. The U.N. says a quarter of a million people have limited access to tap water. And a significant escalation would be if Israel launched a ground incursion and sent ground troops inside Gaza. In fact it seemed like such an incursion was happening early yesterday morning. The army told several foreign media outlets including NPR that ground troops had entered Gaza. In fact they had not. The military said it was a communication error. But the Israeli media had widely reported it was part of a ruse to trick Palestinian militants into moving underground where Israel then bombed them.  And there has been violence in places other than Gaza has not there?  Yes protests in the Israeli-occupied West Bank. Israeli troops have killed at least 11 Palestinians yesterday. And very disturbing pictures inside Israel - civil unrest ethnic strife in cities between Jewish and Palestinian citizens. Last night in Jaffa near Tel Aviv a home was firebombed. The young kids suffered burns - Jewish mob violence Arab mob violence synagogues torched a beloved boutique hotel I have been at vandalized people beaten even live fire.  As we mentioned President Biden has dispatched a State Department envoy to the region. What are they trying to accomplish? President Biden has said a number of times at this point that Israel has a right to defend itself.  That is right. Hady Amr from the State Department is here. It is his first visit in the job. He is trying to urge calm. And the U.S. is really the only international player here that Israel considers its close ally. So that gives the U.S. some leverage behind closed doors to press Israel on ways to minimize casualties in Gaza.  NPR's Daniel Estrin in Jerusalem thanks so much.  You are welcome.  And now we turn to the White House and President Biden's response to the conflict.  The president has so far been restrained in his public comments which have come only at the prodding of reporters.  NPR White House correspondent Scott Detrow joins us now. Hi Scott.  Good morning Lulu.  This is a conflict that has demanded the attention of many U.S. presidents. Why are not we hearing more from President Biden right now?  You know the White House says this is deliberate and that the administration is focusing its efforts on behind-the-scenes diplomacy. I talked to a White House official about this who said it is complicated situation. Things are changing quickly and the White House just wants to be very cautious about what it does and does not weigh in on. This official specifically mentioned the situation that Daniel just talked about of misinformation about whether or not ground troops had entered Gaza as an example of that. Obviously all of this is a very drastic shift from the last administration. Ilan Goldenberg played a big role in Israeli-Palestinian diplomacy during the Obama administration. He said it is good for a president to address all of this in public. But at the same time he said...  Having the president or other senior officials weighing in relentlessly and constantly publicly starts to diminish that because we cannot actually follow it up with the kind of decisive action that ultimately ends the conflict.  Goldenberg says the U.S. does have an important role here but it is not the central role. It is more of a mediator. And of course more broadly Biden has really tried to deemphasize the American focus on the Middle East and he is really centering his foreign policy around competition with China and on areas that improve economic conditions for middle-class Americans.  As we have noted there is a State Department envoy in the Middle East right now talking with Israeli and Palestinian leaders. What else has the administration been doing?  There is a lot going on behind the scenes. And officials are spending a lot of time on the phone. The president has spoken to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has talked to Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas. National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan is making a lot of calls as well. And the White House is emphasizing how much it is talking to countries like Egypt and Jordan places it says where officials have influence with the Hamas militants who are firing rockets into Israeli cities. I asked an official whether any of this has helped. And this official said the White House has played a role in easing tensions at the margins in some places. You know one example would be encouraging Israeli officials to delay a court ruling on whether Palestinians can be evicted from homes in Jerusalem for instance which is obviously a very contentious issue.  Yeah it was one of the sparks to this recent bout of fighting. Going back to what we are seeing in public though what is been the response to what the president has said?  Well on one hand you have some former Trump officials saying that Biden has not been quick enough to stand with Israel. And on the other hand many progressives are frustrated with how often the Biden White House has emphasized Israel's right to defend itself rather than the toll that Israeli airstrikes and mortar attacks are having in Gaza. Here's President Biden earlier this week talking about those strikes.   There has not been a significant overreaction.  And the White House really disputes this criticism and argues it is regularly decrying any violence that harms and kill civilians. But I did note that after this criticism came in on Friday afternoon when the president released a written statement celebrating the Muslim holiday of Eid Biden did make a point to say - and this is a quote - Palestinians including in Gaza and Israelis equally deserve to live in dignity safety and security and that quote no family should have to fear for their safety within their own home or place of worship.  That is NPR White House correspondent Scott Detrow. Thanks so much.  Sure thing.  And for more from the White House and Congress you can check out the NPR Politics Podcast.   The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said this week that with some exceptions fully vaccinated people no longer need to wear masks indoors or outside.  Mask mandates are starting to drop in some parts of the country as states and businesses respond to this new guidance.  But there are questions about whether people are shedding their masks too quickly. Joining us now to sort through all of this is NPR's Maria Godoy. Maria thanks so much for being with us.  Good morning.  First what are those exceptions?  Well the CDC says you still need to wear a mask if you are taking a plane or riding a bus or train or other form of public transportation. And the CDC does not actually run your local or state health department. It just offers them guidance and support. That said several states have already announced plans to drop their mask mandates immediately or in the coming weeks in response to the new guidance. But in some places local mask mandates might still remain in effect. So you will definitely have to check the local rules.  Does this mean Maria that businesses can still require people to wear masks if they so choose?  Yeah. Businesses have the right to make their own rules too. For instance Trader Joe's is dropping its mask requirements. But Kroger Target and Harris Teeter have all said they are going to keep theirs in place for now. And then outside of grocery stores MGM Resorts in Las Vegas has said it is dropping mass requirements for fully vaccinated guests. So it really varies from business to business.  Does not this practically put businesses in a difficult position? I mean how would somebody working in a store know if an unmasked customer is fully vaccinated or not?  I mean they would not. And that is one of the big criticisms about the CDC guidance from people like Marc Perrone. He is the president of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union. That is the largest union for front-line retail and grocery workers. He says the new mask guidance puts his union's members at risk.  Inside facilities where there are large numbers of people that you have no way of knowing who is been vaccinated and who has not been vaccinated it is very difficult to create a situation where we feel as though that our members will be safe.  Now CDC director Rochelle Walensky says as long as you have been vaccinated you are protected. But Perone notes that many of his union's members still are not vaccinated although they are working on it. And the other thing to remember is that while the vaccines are really good they are not 100 effective. And for some people especially immunocompromised people that is a real problem.  And you have done some reporting on this realm have not you? - how this guidance could affect people who are immunocompromised.  Right. Well research suggests that the vaccines may not be as effective in people who are highly immunosuppressed. And it may depend in part on their medication and their specific medical condition. So the doctors I have been talking to say right now if you are immunocompromised even if you are fully vaccinated you should not assume you are protected. So keep your masks on and keep social distancing.  Maria why has there been this change in masking guidance now? And what about the concern of people that it is just coming too soon?  Well Walensky told NPR the CDC's new guidance reflects the current state of the pandemic in the U.S. along with evidence that the vaccines are extremely effective.   All of that science in conjunction with all of the epidemiologic data that we have really says now is the moment.  She points out that cases are down by about a third in the U.S. that vaccines are more readily available and studies have shown the vaccines provide excellent protection against disease. But critics say it is too soon to loosen restrictions. They note that vaccination rates are a lot lower for Black and Latino populations which have been hard-hit by this pandemic. They say the change in guidelines should have waited until vaccination rates were a lot higher in these more vulnerable populations.  NPR's Maria Godoy thanks so much.  My pleasure Scott.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday May 15. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. UP FIRST back Monday with news to start your week. You can follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  We also have more news and interviews. We will talk books and hear new music.  And it is all on something called the radio - Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. You can find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  