 And we start with the return of Hillary Clinton and FBI Director James Comey.  Hillary Clinton is talking about Comey. The defeated presidential candidate took questions onstage at an event yesterday. Christiane Amanpour asked about the election and Clinton blamed her defeat in part on Russia and FBI Director James Comey.   I was on the way to winning until the combination of Jim Comey's letter on October 28 and Russian WikiLeaks raised doubts in the minds of people who were inclined to vote for me but got scared off.  Remember Comey's letter saying the FBI was looking into some more emails. This morning the FBI director might have a chance to get his say if he is asked about it. Comey will be before the Senate Judiciary Committee although the hearing is supposed to be about something else.  OK. NPR national security correspondent Mary Louise Kelly is up first with us this morning. Hi Mary Louise.  Good morning Rachel.  What is this particular hearing about? What do senators want to know on the Judiciary Committee from James Comey?  Well Rachel in case living through the 2016 campaign once was not enough for you Jim Comey is going to get to do it again. He will get questions about the FBI generally. He may get asked about this Hillary Clinton...  This is a regular check-in.  This is a regular oversight hearing. However as tends to happen lately on the Hill it is likely to be all Russia all the time. The chair of the committee that he is before today is Senator Chuck Grassley. And Grassley has a bee in his bonnet about the Trump-Russia dossier which we have not talked about in a while. You may have recalled this is the one everybody was talking about a couple months ago that alleges that Russia has all kinds of dirt on Donald Trump. Grassley...  And that there had been collusion is what this dossier...  And that there had been collusion. And Grassley has questions - everybody has questions - but Grassley has written a letter which I am looking at right now Rachel asking questions about the relationship between the guy who wrote this dossier - this is the former MI6 officer Christopher Steele - and the FBI. And so it is safe to say - he fired off a letter to Comey on Friday demanding answers. Safe to say he will be pushing for them today.  Tomorrow there is going to be yet another hearing on Capitol Hill. Right? This one is going to be behind closed doors which is where they can talk about classified material and presumably get closer to real answers.  Right. Comey is back in the hot seat tomorrow before the House Intelligence Committee. There are a lot of committees on the Hill looking into this but it is the intelligence committees that have the lead. So tomorrow House Intelligence Committee - Comey also the head of the National Security Agency Mike Rogers. But there are a lot more hearings to come. I mean I think we are in the settle-in-and-pop-some-popcorn phase.  And there is a sense of urgency here. I mean - we have interviewed people who have said oh we are going to take as much time as we need. But they cannot take forever on this.  No. Because there are more elections coming. So if the point of all of this is to figure out what Russia did and to stop Russia from doing it again there is a gubernatorial race coming up in Virginia in the fall.  And worth remembering - one of the reasons we are still talking about this is because we still do not know some answers and because it is a democracy where nothing is ever over. This is you know like Homeland or - name your series - House Of Cards. There is always going to be another episode or another layer to dig down on this story.  NPR's Mary Louise Kelly helping us do that digging - as always thanks so much Mary Louise.  You are very welcome.   And we are going to say on Capitol Hill where Republicans Steve are having to do a bit of compromising these days.  And lawmakers formally vote today on a spending agreement. It is the deal that kept the government open and avoided a shutdown the other day. Some Republicans think they agreed to a little too much. Here's Senator Lindsey Graham on CNN.   I think the...  Why?  ...Democrats cleaned our clock. I think the you know - there are things in this bill that I just do not understand. This was not winning from the Republican point of view.  What happened here was the bill required some Democratic votes and so it did require compromise. Democrats got a variety of items like more money for the arts more spending on health care Pell Grants for college.  Compromise - something that does not happen that often anymore on Capitol Hill.  No not that often.  NPR's political editor Domenico Montanaro is with us in-studio. Good morning Domenico.  Good morning Rachel.  OK. This spending bill - President Trump did not get funding for a wall. He did not get any of the big cuts to domestic programs he would been pushing. Planned Parenthood is still funded. So what did he get?  Well he did get more military spending. He did get another million - another billion and a half - excuse me - for border security fixing fencing more technology sensors. The Immigrations and Customs Enforcement Agency got more money. Customs and Border Patrol got more money. So there were things that did get some more funding that President Trump had wanted for some of his priorities but there were also things that Democrats liked. You know Steve mentioned the Pell Grants increases. The EPA Clean Water program was left intact. E-cigarettes are going to be subject to FDA review something some Republicans wanted to stop. And Democrats stopped deep EPA cuts. So a lot of things that both sides had to give in on and you saw like you said some compromise.  Well but is not - so is that an outright - when we heard Lindsey Graham there...  Of course not .  ...Feeling like it is not - but at the same time it is a compromise. Is not that what they are supposed to do? Is not that governance?  I mean the big win for everybody was the fact that the government stayed open although you had President Trump tweet yesterday that he was encouraging moving from the 60-vote threshold in the Senate to 51 votes in the Senate so that he could get more of what he wanted because he said the reason we had to give in so many things is because we had to work with Democrats. So instead he said you know the country needs a good shutdown come September.  A nuclear nuclear nuclear option.  OK. So let us pivot to health care - because why not? We always do it feels like. Republicans are trying again to replace Obamacare. It does not look like at this point they have the votes they need.  No. They still do not have the votes. They did not have the votes yesterday. If they had the votes they would bring it to the floor. So Republicans still are trying to corral the votes. They are some you know half a dozen - maybe a little fewer maybe a little - more short of the goal they need to be able to get that through. Of course that is a big priority for President Trump and something that they have now pledged to do before moving on to tax reform.  So Democrats must be feeling a little more emboldened these days.  They are a little more emboldened. But let us remember life in the minority in Congress is not fun.  Can I just remember something that the president said some weeks ago about the health care debate? And I am paraphrasing here because you cannot quote him directly. Do not worry about the little stuff essentially was the quote. Do not worry about the little stuff. Just get this bill passed. It is hard to believe this president really cares that much about the details of his spending bill as long as some business gets done and the fight goes on. I am sure he would like to pass some kind of health care legislation and maybe still does not particularly care what it is.  NPR political editor Domenico Montanaro helping us sort this out this morning. Thanks Domenico.  Thank you.  And we have a question to keep an eye on today. Steve?  The question is - what will the Justice Department do after a shooting in Baton Rouge La.? The killing of Alton Sterling you may recall was part of a string of violent incidents involving police in 2016. Numerous news outlets say federal authorities have decided not to charge the officers involved although NPR News has yet to independently confirm this.   And our final story has to do with international law. We are going to talk about the Geneva Convention.  Yeah which set standards for humanitarian treatment during war. The rules - they are supposed to be laws of war here - they include protections for hospitals. Yet a new study says hospitals are targeted in war zones around the world - not very surprising if you have listen to NPR News. We have heard from people in Syria whose facilities were targeted. And the Bloomberg School of Health at Johns Hopkins studied that very country saying that more than 100 health facilities were attacked last year in Syria alone despite a United Nations plan to protect them.  So NPR's Jason Beaubien has been doing some reporting on this and he is with us now. Good morning Jason.  Hey. Good morning.  What was in that that U.N. plan?  So basically the U.N. Security Council - it was exactly a year ago today - passed another resolution because they were saying there is this incredible prevailing impunity they said for attacks on hospitals. And they were saying that member states need to really step it up and conduct independent investigations when attacks like this happen.  So that was not happening nation-states were not investigating after a hospital...  I mean that is part of the problem. Right? There is this international law saying this is a horrific thing to do - to bomb a hospital or to attack health care workers or for gunmen to come in and you know yank people out of hospital beds. But trying to enforce that is incredibly difficult and there is not you know this sort of mechanism that can go in and investigate. And so they are saying member states should take that on and they are the ones that should do it. But it is the member states that actually are accused of carrying out these attacks that are considered responsible for investigating themselves as to whether or not this happened. And as you can guess that has not gone incredibly well. You know this new report gets into some of the details on some of - it does not try to look at absolutely every attack. But it did look at some of the documentation that is out there and found that you know as you might suspect not that many of these are actually leading to anyone being prosecuted being held accountable. And that is what the problem was in the first place.  It is also hard to discern if these attacks - some of them - they may have claimed to have been mistakes others directly targeted.  Yeah absolutely. So it is a huge problem and it is sort of this outrage of war. People are trying to do something about it.  Yeah.  But what we are seeing is that not much is actually getting done.  The old phrase is total war. And in Syria that is what it is.  Yeah.  NPR's Jason Beaubien. Hey Jason thanks so much for sharing your reporting on this.  You are welcome. 