 And for more on Chrysler's bankruptcy and the economy overall we are joined by now our friend from the business world Joe Nocera. He is at the studios of the Radio Foundation in New York. Hey Joe. Mr.  How are you?  I am well. How are you doing this morning? Mr.  Good.  So okay convincing consumers to buy cars from a bankrupt company that does not seem like the easiest thing. Can   Can Chrysler do it? Mr.  Well you know even before they were bankrupt things were pretty bad. I think the latest numbers were their sales were down 48 percent this past month and that was before the bankruptcy. I do not think the bankruptcy per se is going to make that much difference in terms of buying cars. But you know Fiat which will probably wind up taking over Chrysler is going to have a tough road to hoe. Chrysler is like the - you know how every town has a storefront that no matter what goes in there it closes within six months?  It is that bad luck factor yes. Mr.  Yeah. That is what Chrysler feels like. You know Daimler it was a disaster. Cerberus the hedge fund that bought it it is been a disaster. And now Fiat's going to try and take it over and make something out of this. And you know - you know they are not going to liquidate. They are going to come out of bankruptcy. The government's going to make sure that happens. But they are so weakened and they are so much the weakest of the quote-unquote Big Three you really do wonder whether this is a salvageable situation as sad as that is to say.  Well we always wonder why people go into those or why new businesses move into those unlucky storefronts. Why has Fiat decided to do this at this point? Mr.  Well you know they still have some viable cars. They still have -they have a distribution network. It allows Fiat to get their hands on that distribution network and not only sell Chryslers but perhaps sell Fiats as well. So I mean they do have business reasons for wanting to do this. And bankruptcy does allow you to you know shed dealers which is very very very difficult to do because of state law. It does allow you to change union contracts and - and you know shed debts and come out you know shiny and clean. You know whether that happens quickly as the president wants or whether the bankruptcy process gets gnarled up with various creditor claims that is what remains to be seen. But if they did come out quickly there is definitely a possibility.  But before moving from Fiat it is worth noting - they have not exactly had a lot of success in the American market in the past. Is that right? Mr.  No they have not but they were - their cars were - 30 years ago their cars basically spend more time in the shop than they did on the road. They have not been in the American market for decades. And you know my understanding is that they do make better cars now. They are going to have to. So  Hoping for a new Fiat. Mr.  Right.  Well more problems for Bank of America if we shift there. The CEO Kenneth Lewis was really run out on a rail by the shareholders. Why were they so angry? Mr.  Well they are angry because of this Merrill deal and not only because of the deal itself but - which has so far been a disaster  And just remind us what that deal was. Mr.  Oh well. You know in the midst of the financial crisis Bank of America bought Merrill Lynch. And then two days as we now know before the deal closed at the end of the year John Thane the then-CEO of Merrill gave his troops three-point-something billion in bonuses which infuriated the American public. And then finally in deposition testimony that was leaked by the you know from out of the attorney general's office in New York it turned out that Thane - excuse me Mr. Lewis said he was told by the government not to tell the shareholders that they were sticking with the deal when he wanted to back out of it and that basically Paulsen and Bernanke kind of forced him into it. So the shareholders really feel like they have been sold a bill of goods and they are furious. Now keep in mind he is still running the company. What he lost this week at the annual meeting was his chairmanship that is all.  Well let us talk about the Federal Reserve. The Obama administration they are scheduled to release the results of these stress tests for 19 of the nation's biggest banks. It sounds like they are all going into the hospital. But tell us exactly what these tests are what they gauge what kind of results we are going to get. Mr.  Right. Well first of all it is not the Feds it is the Treasury that is doing this. And the point of the exercise is to say in a worse case scenario how healthy or unhealthy are these banks. There is a lot of rumors that six of the 19 banks will need more capital. Already Citibank it is been reported will need 10 billion in more capital. And it is a way to just tell the American people this is the state of the banking industry we are going to shore up what we need to shore up we are not going to let these guys go under. And there is a lot of questions as to whether this is going to be a whitewash or whether it is going to be tough. And we really will not know until late this week  Well I will have to stop you Mr.  when it comes out.  The American people will certainly be watching for that. Joe thanks a lot for joining us. Mr.  Thanks for having me.  That is Joe Nocera. He writes the Talking Business column for The New York Times. 