 There is still plenty of food in America but a lot of households face a food crisis. Remember that famous survey from a few years ago finding that many Americans could not pay a 400 emergency expense? Well for many the emergency has arrived and so they are depending on people like Radha Muthiah of the Capital Area Food Bank.  So I am now walking into the conveyor belt room in our facility in Northeast D.C.  She spoke inside the food bank's cavernous warehouse in Washington. Volunteers were taking up their positions along an assembly line.  They are each standing on designated X's that are about 6 feet apart. And they are packing - let me see - a total of about 13 items into a box. So I see corn. I see cans of corn mac and cheese some soup cans some rice cereal some shelf stable milk.  Now the first thing to know about the D.C.-area food bank is that it has existed a long time. It serves 400000 people in need even in good times even in this very wealthy metro area.  Every time I see the statistic too I am just floored. It is roughly 1 in 11 1 in 12 of those who live in our area are uncertain where their next meal is going to come from. You are right in that it is an area of great wealth but it is also an area of great inequities.  Traditionally the Capital Area Food Bank obtains surplus food that is donated by area grocery stores. Now the groceries are giving much much less and the Capital Area Food Bank is having to raise money to pay for food shipments just as the need for their food boxes has increased.  We all know at the beginning of this pandemic in particular people were rushing to the stores you know ensuring they had a week or two worth of supplies at home and in some cases panic-buying. And so what that resulted in was just nothing on the shelves and therefore close to nothing that would be available to be donated to food banks like ours.  Are you able to meet demand?  Our demand is increasing significantly and I will explain how it takes two forms. One is typically prior to the pandemic those who rely on the food bank would rely for about three to five days a month worth of food. So it is really to tide them over if you will. But ever since the pandemic hit people are being asked to keep one to two weeks' worth of food at home. So just with the existing numbers of food-insecure individuals we saw our demand go up about three times. Now what we are seeing added to that is just the impacts of the economic slowdown. And we have so many more newly unemployed individuals who in the past were able to live paycheck to paycheck but now are finding it very hard to meet their basic services food included. So demand is increasing. And in fact what we hear from our partners is anywhere from 30 to a full 100 increase in the amount of food that people are looking for and in the number of people who are coming to their pantries. So demand is increasing. We are trying our best through increased purchasing.  It must be weird for the individual who has just never relied on your services has never been on food stamps maybe had a good job two months ago but just did not have very much money in the bank - which is super common - and now they are in this suddenly desperate situation. It must be strange for them to go to the area church or where it is that they find your box.  You know it really is. And we experience this every day. We have got something called a Hunger Lifeline. It is a phone number that people can call into especially if they are new for them to understand where they should go what they should bring how they can avail you know of some food. And I have heard and listened in on some of those phone calls and for the most part you are hearing people start with an apology to say I am so sorry to have to call you to ask for food. I have never had to do this before. In fact I volunteered at your facility to help you know pack food or distribute food. But I am now in need and I just do not really know where to go and that is why I am calling you. So many of the calls take that type of a form. And it is sad. It is disheartening for them. It is - and some will say they are embarrassed you know to call but they are just in so much need.  What have you thought about when you have seen or read news reports about farmers dumping dairy products and other food products because they cannot get them to a proper market anymore?  You know this is - it is a very important point and obviously it is been in the media of late. The way that these supply chains for food have been geared in this country you know for the last decade or so they have been geared towards providing food through restaurants and to food service providers. Over 50 I believe of the food supply goes in that direction. So what we have seen in the last several weeks is the attempt to pivot and reorient the supply chain towards grocery stores food banks and other institutions that are providing groceries that can be cooked at home. So we are very optimistic about that. And so we look forward to receiving tens of thousands of boxes of produce a month that will enable us to get that good healthy food to those most in need.  Radha Muthiah of the Capital Area Food Bank does not expect this to be a short-term change. The food bank is planning on drastically higher demand for its food for at least 12 months.  