 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. Good morning. I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am David Greene. JP Morgan Chase has long had the reputation of being one of the better-managed big banks in the country. So how did it make a 2 billion blunder and what does it tell us about banking today nearly five years after the onset of the financial crisis? When such questions are looming we often turn to David Wessel economics editor of the Wall Street Journal. And David welcome back to the program.  Good morning.  Well let us start with what I suppose is - seemingly a basic question. What exactly was JP Morgan trying to do with this financial maneuver that went wrong?  Well that is something that the bank's chief executive Jamie Dimon has been trying to explain. He did it on Meet the Press on Sunday and he surely will try again today when they have the company's annual shareholder meeting in Tampa Florida. As he tells it JP Morgan Chase is in the business of making loans and investing in securities buying corporate bonds. To reduce their risks it hedges. And hedges means you kind of take out insurance in case your borrowers do not pay back their loans. And in this case they took out insurance. They thought they took out too much insurance so they tried to offset that by selling some insurance. That is what they were trying to do. Now why would a bank do this? Well Mr. Dimon and other bankers say that in order to manage the risk of their portfolio in order to make their business less risky they do this hedging. And that allows them to make more loans - more car loans more credit card loans more job-creating business loans and stuff like that. Unfortunately it did not work out as they would planned.  I mean this seems pretty astounding. You keep using terms like hedge and reduce risk. And they are basically arguing that an effort to reduce risk loses 2 billion. I mean is everyone buying this explanation?  No. And especially from the outside it is incredibly hard to tell the difference between a hedge where you are offsetting some risks you take in your business and simply going to the casino and making a bet in the hopes of making a profit. And there are a lot of people outside JP Morgan who said look that is what they were doing. In fact some people who used to work at JP Morgan have been saying that is what they were doing. Yes they were running a little insurance business to protect their banking business. But on the side they were trying to make what they call icing some profits on the side. And the critics of current banking practices say look if people want to hedge if they want to go and speculate in the market that is fine. But the people who do that should not be in the business of running a bank that has government-guaranteed deposits. You should not mess up these two businesses.  Even bringing up the word casino as a comparison for a bank is probably something no one ever wants to hear.  Right especially Jamie Dimon.  Well can you just give us a window into a sophisticated bank like this? I mean you have this image of a place with very smart experts and all these you know safety precautions in place. How could this happen?  Well that is what is so scary here. So as you said at the beginning JP Morgan Chase was supposed to be one of the best-managed banks. They got through the financial crisis largely unharmed. And they managed to make a deal that was so complicated that its own senior management could not really understand it. Now Mr. Dimon says we are still going to earn a lot of money this quarter. So it is not like the bank is jeopardized. And that as far as we know is true. But it did take 10 percent off its stock price. And it is raising the question about whether this bank and its peers are simply too big to manage. After all if Jamie Dimon cannot figure out what his London investment office is doing who can? We worried a lot about banks during the crisis that we called too big to fail. That is the government could not let them go under and had to bail them out. But the result has been that banks are even bigger than they were before the crisis. And this too big to manage theme is really really front and center now.  And David Wessel really briefly - I mean people who do not own you know stock in JP Morgan - I mean you know Americans out there should they be worried about this you know becoming a larger problem?  Yes. One it is a big mistake and taxpayers pay if it gets to be a bigger mistake. So the question is is this is a warning sign that banks are back to their own shenanigans? And secondly what happens at one bank usually does not happen only at one bank. All bank stocks are down on this. And the question is whether banks are doing things that will go kablooey and put the economy at risk the way it was four or five years ago.  All right. David thanks so much.  You are welcome.  David Wessel is economics editor of the Wall Street Journal. 