 French lawmakers passed a controversial new law yesterday - some say under pressure from the International Music Industry. The law would punish people who illegally share copyrighted music or movies - without permission - by taking away their right to use the Internet for up to a year. NPR's Neda Ulaby reports.  It is a three-strikes-you are-out law that would kick people off French Internet if they are accused say of illegally downloading a song by the president's wife pop singer Carla Bruni.   The rule horrifies digital civil rights advocates like Danny O'Brien. He coordinates international outreach for the Electronic Frontier Foundation. What troubles him most he says is that the bill completely does away with due process. Mr. DANNY O' There is no judge keeping an eye on this. There is no right of appeal and it is entirely separate from the usual judicial system.  Proof is not necessary. A record company has to simply say j'accuse and an organization still to be created by the French government will sever your Internet connection. This law might not even be legal in France. It is up to the country's version of the Supreme Court to approve and it ultimately may be trumped by the European Union. Mr. O' It is certainly one of the more extreme attempts to control Internet behavior that I have seen.  The French government was reportedly under pressure by the lobbying arm of the international music industry. Despite its best efforts file-sharing worldwide has only increased. O'Brien says innocent people have been prosecuted and the system can be gamed. It is especially easy to make mistakes anyplace the Internet is public like cybercafes. Mr. O' The French government has come up with some interesting suggestions for this. One was that anybody who has an open WiFi network should just shut it down  or only allow a certain white list of Web sites for people to visit.  O'Brien says he is surprised that the home of liberty France is the first country to implement laws he describes as draconian. He is not alone. Sixty percent of French citizens oppose the rule. Predictably they have begun manning the cyber barricades. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 