 The classic children's show Captain Kangaroo premiered on TV in 1955. It aired for almost 30 years. After its creator and star Bob Keeshan died in 2004 his estate donated a few of his beloved Bunny and Moose hand puppets to the Smithsonian. Now hundreds of other items from the show are being auctioned off in Los Angeles. NPR's Mandalit del Barco reports.   If you are like me and grew up in the 1960s and '70s you have hazy memories of Captain Kangaroo telling stories drawing pictures and palling around with hand puppets. He had sidekicks - the bespeckled Mr. Bunny Rabbit a dancing bear farmhand Mr. Green Jeans and Mister Moose who told corny jokes and made ping pong balls rain down on the captain's noggin.    So I got all nostalgic seeing Captain Kangaroo props and costumes on display in the garden of the Nate D. Sanders auction house.   Auction manager Laura Yntema says more than 500 items are being auctioned most with starting bids of 250 dollars. Up for grabs are pairs of Mr. Green Jean's denim overalls. And the Dancing Bear's furry man-sized costume held together with Velcro.    He is a little dingy but he is not ripped or anything. I mean the quality of this stuff is just really really great.  Also on the auction block are scripts and awards and Captain Kangaroo's iconic red and blue pea coats.  They have the deep pouch pockets like kangaroos. So he would you know have little treats in there for all his characters. So you know you really do not need all this like computer animation and gimmicks you know to really entertain kids. You know just need some imagination.  Yntema says Bob Keeshan's idea for the show was to make Captain Kangaroo a grandfatherly figure for children.  He was pretty young when it started so you know he had a full head of hair. And they actually made him older looking in the beginning. But then as time went on obviously he lost his hair and then they had to make him younger looking. So we have like five toupees of that kind of floppy mop top.  He was just this kind bubbly kind of weirdo man.  Stephanie Beard stopped by the auction house to view some of the items she plans to bid on like the ring of keys to the Captain Kangaroo's treasure house. Beard may sound like she is five but she is actually 31 years old and lends her voice for cartoons.  I am kind of a third generation Captain Kangaroo fan. You know my Pop showed dad growing up and they passed it down to me and it was kind of a really big deal for us. My grandfather made us a set of those treasure house keys and we would play Captain Kangaroo growing up. I have a very close fondness to this stuff. And this just brings back floods.  Online by phone and in person bidding for the Captain Kangaroo auction ends Tuesday at 00 p.m. Pacific Time. Mandalit del Barco NPR News.   This is NPR News.  