 The recent unrest in Baltimore put the city's grimaced profile on display. Today's running of the famed Preakness Stakes is a welcome diversion. Donna Marie Owens reports.  It is early morning at Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore just days before more than 100000 people are expected to arrive for the Preakness. Stunning thoroughbreds including Kentucky Derby winner American Pharaoh are everywhere. They are galloping on the track being groomed and in barns chomping on hay. Tour guide Emma Reigel provides a tongue-in-cheek history about the Preakness once called the Dinner Party Stakes. It started back in 1873.  There was Governor Bowie and a bunch of friends around a table and they were arguing. They said my horse is better than your horse. No my horse is better than your horse.  While there is ample excitement leading up to the middle jewel of the Triple Crown this year's Preakness is not business as usual.   Black lives matter. Black lives matter.  These protests last month initially were peaceful but later a youth uprising on the day of Freddie Gray's funeral sparked rioting looting and vandalism. Sal Sinatra is the general manager of the Maryland Jockey Club which oversees the Pimilico race track. He says the city needs something to celebrate.  This year's Preakness because of the unrest in Baltimore I think is even more special because I think it is something that the city needs to bring a little calming effect to everybody.  Besides the human toll the local economy suffered. More than 2 million in convention and related bookings were lost the first week alone. Tom Noonan is president of Visit Baltimore which promotes city tourism.  During the first week to 10 days after the initial unrest we had in the city we saw one citywide cancel we saw five or six in-house pieces of business that - we knew our hotels lost some in-house business as well social events other corporate events. Since that we have not seen any more meetings events leave the city.  Twenty-four million people visited Baltimore last year. Noonan says while his team received calls of support from across the country it will take time to repair the city's image.  Are we going to see less tourists in town this summer than we would traditionally see? Probably.  Tourism officials plan to launch an advertising campaign soon. Meanwhile Pimlico management says Preakness ticket sales did not suffer. They actually went up and might surpass last year's record attendance. At events this week leading up to today's race men in natty suits and ladies in lovely hats sipped on cocktails like the Black-Eyed Susan. Kevin Mouton a longtime horse trainer was asked which of the eight contenders might win the Preakness.  I would like to see a Triple Crown winner just like everybody in the industry but most of all I would just like to see a clean fair race and everybody be safe.  No doubt the people of Baltimore wish the same as they recover and rebuild. For NPR News I am Donna Marie Owens in Baltimore. 