 When you hear the word banjo you know that country and bluegrass are not far away - there is just no helping it. But as soon as I put in the new CD by Danny Barnes that preconceived notion flew right out the door.  Mr.   Do not bring me down. I sure like sleeping in the underground...  So maybe it was that and Danny Barnes's storytelling chops that caught the ear of Dave Matthews of the Dave Matthews Band. Danny Barnes's latest release is called Pizza Box. It was recorded at Matthews's Haunted Hollow Studio in Virginia and he even sang backup on a couple of tracks. We have invited Danny Barnes to our studio and he is accepted. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Thank you Liane. Thanks for having me.  Now I realize that introduction almost made it sound like you have materialized out of thin air. I know that is not true. You have played with a lot of bands and musicians before this solo release. Just give us some - drop some names. Mr.  Well when I first started traveling I was in this band called Bad Livers. I wrote their music and sometimes I worked with this country singer Robert Keen. The jazz guitarist Bill Frisell and I have done some records and some film scores and things together. And played some with Dave Matthews Band Im on their new record. So I have a good circle of friends that make music and stuff.  Right. Lyle Lovett and the Dead Kennedys and the Butthole Surfers. Mr.  Yeah.  That is a pretty wide range of music and I guess that is really what fascinates me about this CD. I know I am not alone. Let us listen to a cut that is called Bone.  Mr.   The ground round down at the pound like you found me. I am a flea-bit dog-whipped stain your carpet launch your logger  got extension for your  know my body's worse than barking...  When I heard this I said when was the last time I heard somebody scat-sing to a banjo? And I think it was Roger Miller... Mr.  Oh yeah.  ...doing dang me dang me. I read that it is either hip hop or rap but would not you call it scat? Mr.  A long time ago one of my teachers told me that with a banjo you can play like these fast flurries of notes in a way they can be kind of musically meaningless. And so one of my teachers arrangement teachers told me that I should only play what I can sing. And so I practiced for maybe 10 years where when I would play I would try to sing everything that I was playing so that it was not just gratuitous scales and things.  Mr.  I got real interested in what Ornette Coleman was doing and those guys and I just got real interested in playing between the cracks harmonically and rhythmically.  Yeah. There is something about it that sounds like a horn - I mean like you are trying to do a horn solo as well. Mr.  That is right yeah.  Yeah. The title of the CD Pizza Box - you have said you are not a virtuoso instrumentalist but you write really good songs. And you compare your music to vignettes and stories within like the theme of a movie. So Pizza Box what is the story what is the movie? Mr.  Well the story arc for the whole record is there is these various characters that are coming to this realization that they are sort of like the cause of their own misery and they are in various stages of figuring this out. Some of them are past that and they are realizing it and there is a lot of joy and release in their lives and they are really excited about it. And some of them never make that conclusion and they end up just sort of like one guy goes to prison and then one guy ends up robbing another guy in one of the other songs. But the bad news is that they do not have anyone to blame. But the good news is is they can make better decisions right now if they could just get their mind around it.   You put I mean deliberately put classic pop hooks on this CD as well. I am thinking of the tune Overdue. Mr.  Right.  That should bring people in the tent? Mr.  I am just you know I really am a fan of pop music you know. I look at what I do as kind of fractured pop music and I love the way that they have a way of sometimes delivering some really profound messages in a really simple way. And thats a direct path to a lot of people's kind of attention I think.  Mr.   Baby be my Valentine. I will be yours and you will be mine forever. I am learning to forgive you baby. Would you forgive me too? Do not give up on the sunshine baby. I can still learn a thing or two...  This fractured pop music weird pop music twisted pop music - not something too that you would expect to hear a banjo in as well. But you do call the banjo your weapon of choice while playing non-traditional music. Did the banjo choose you or did you choose it? Mr.  I think that is a tough question. I know when I was 10 I used to see that - remember those shows that came on during the summer the summer replacement shows?  Sure like... Mr.  Smothers Brothers and The Glen Campbell Good Time Hour.  Yeah well there was a whole folk music going on... Mr.  Totally.  ...at that time yeah. Mr.  And it would be on like back then there would only be three channels on TV. And right at prime time the thing would go dark you had a fade to black and it would fade up on John Hartford playing the banjo. And when I was 10 I thought wow this must be like the coolest thing that a person could do. And you know the funny thing about the banjo - and I have been at it 38 years and I still take lessons and work on it - is that it does not look like those hand motions would make that music. I looks a little out of sync. Like if we were sitting here talking and someone was in the back room and they pulled out one and started kind of tuning it up I would just be totally drawn into it. 'ecause if you look at it it looks so weird because like on the piano it is linearly arranged. These are the low notes and these are the high notes. And you can sort of tell what the music sounds like just from watching someone play. But with a banjo it seems like you are watching a movie that is dubbed or something. It does not make sense 'ecause you know that weird string - so the high note and the low note are next to each other on the banjo which is really odd. Even today - I have been at it 38 years and I look at my hands and I go man that looks really weird. It does not look like that would make that sound you know. So it is pretty weird.  Mr.   I think about how I loved you so wishing you were mine. I wished it all the time. I had a love so blind. Basically it is so elemental that I was born this sentimental...  I just want to remind our listeners People can go to our website NPR.org and actually see a performance of you doing what you do. Pizza Box - you talked about it being an arc of character in a story. So is this meant to be listened to in its entirety and to put ourselves in that arc in the way you anticipate the whole... Mr.  That is the way I listen to records. And I made this sort of as a way of like...  That is the... Mr.  ...entertaining myself.  The album days... Mr.  Totally.  ...remember you would listen from beginning to end? Mr.  That is where I grew up - around that era. Like you sat and you played the whole thing from one end to the other and then you did it again and you did it again and you did it again. And you listened to it in order and you listened to it the way I like to listen to music which is sort of - I look at it sort of cinematically I guess.  Danny Barnes - his CD is called Pizza Box. Thank you so much for coming in. Mr.  Thank you for having me Liane.  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Liane Hansen. 