 The people who leap into action first in emergencies - police firefighters paramedics - have established hotlines in many places for those emergency workers who find that they need help too. One of the latest is in Bucks County Pa. Frank Farry who is a state representative as well as a volunteer firefighter created that hotline and he joins us now from Bucks County. Representative Farry thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you Scott.  And why was this important to you?  October 1 of 2015 Bucks County suffered a firefighter-EMT suicide of a young first responder named George Redner who took his own life. And then a little less than a year later Ken Hopkins took his own life and he was also a firefighter-EMT. And along the way there is been several law enforcement suicides. And what we are finding is more and more first responders are having some mental health issues from the service they provide. And you know we need to let everybody know like it is OK to need to have a release to need to be able to go talk to somebody to be impacted by seeing some of these horrible things.  Do you mind me asking have you had your rocky moments?  Absolutely. You know when you perform CPR on a 6-month-old and that save's not successful. We had a line-of-duty police officer death in my community where I was actually the incident commander of his rescue scene. He was trapped under a vehicle. And I knew him personally. I knew his family. And that actually rocked our community to the core. So yeah we have been absolutely - and I have watched you know fellow first responders go through some struggles too. So I can say it is real.  Yeah. I will bet the opioid epidemic and crisis has not helped.  Yeah. And that is an evolving situation. You know the degree of Narcan saves that we are having up here is obviously increasing the more readily available Narcan is to first responders. Earlier today you know the squad went out for an overdose and it got upgraded to a cardiac arrest assignment. It was not in my fire district but you know it was something the first responders had to dedicate their time to today.  There - as we noted there have been other hotlines. Phoenix I am told set up in 2011 Salt Lake City in 2012. There was once one in New York. I am wondering if you have been able to consult with anybody outside of Bucks County for some advice and what they have learned?  We are actually - yeah. The hotline is actually run through one of our social service nonprofits here in Bucks called Lenape Foundation and they have done fantastic work. I have also found that a lot of us are trying to do the same things and we are on parallel paths. And I am hoping Bucks County ends up being a trial for something that can ultimately go statewide here in the Commonwealth. As the one person that administers the program said to me you know somebody can call from Minnesota and we are going to take the call and we are going to find somebody to help them in Minnesota. So we are not keeping it exclusive to Bucks County but it went live in January. And I do know there were seven documented calls within the first three months of it being up.  Representative Farry despite the fact that people in emergency services and for that matter the military speak up about this kind of thing a lot more than they used to are there still some people in emergency services who just find it difficult to ask for help because they have to be towers of strength?  Absolutely. We have to make it acceptable for people to be comfortable going to ask for help. We have to make sure they know where to go. And then we have to make sure there is sufficient resources there that is capable of helping them get the help that they need. And public awareness is also part of this 'ecause as I discuss this in public settings non-first responder settings you know the room ends up nodding going wow we never really thought of this before but it is real. I mean the Redner family the Hopkins family they will tell you it is real because it is.  State Representative Frank Farry of Pennsylvania. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you sir. Appreciate the time.  If someone wants to call the number Representative Farry what is it?  The number for law enforcement is 267-893-5200. And for dispatchers EMS and fire it is 267-893-5400. 