 The COVID-19 crisis in India continues with record numbers of infections.  Hospitals are desperately short of oxygen and India's government faces renewed calls to impose a national lockdown.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   In the U.S. the economy is coming back to life as more restaurants bars and theaters open back up. But not everyone benefits.  This week's jobs report was weaker than expected but President Biden says he is optimistic.   We knew this would not be a sprint. It would be a marathon. Quite frankly we are moving more rapidly than I thought we would.  Plus the FDA could soon clear Pfizer's COVID-19 vaccine for kids 12 and up.  So please stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   The COVID-19 outbreak in India shows no signs of letting up.  Today the government confirmed more than 400000 new infections and nearly 4200 deaths another record. And the real numbers may be even higher.  NPR's Lauren Frayer joins us now from Mumbai. Lauren thanks so much for being with us.  Hi Scott.  We have been watching the situation in India deteriorate for some weeks now. Any sign things may be improving?  Not really. Unfortunately the past 24 hours have been the deadliest here since the pandemic began. But the truth is that we actually do not know the real picture because testing has slowed. Crematoriums are overwhelmed. Funeral workers say only a fraction of the bodies that they see daily are getting counted by the government. And it is the same with hospitals. You know we are weeks into this wave and hospitals are still overwhelmed. We are seeing shortages of beds medical oxygen antiviral drugs - I mean pretty much everything you need to treat and help people.  And why has not the federal government put a national lockdown into place?  Well local lockdowns are in place. And the southern states of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are actually the latest to lock down. But India's economy shrank 24 last spring under a national lockdown. So Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not want to repeat that. He is under pressure though. The Lancet medical journal has an article out today calling Modi's response inexcusable saying Modi's government is quote responsible for presiding over a self-inflicted national catastrophe.  That is a very grave charge. Has Prime Minister Modi or his government responded?  Modi has kind of gone AWOL actually. He last addressed the nation on television more than 2 12 weeks ago. I have contacted seven spokespeople for Modi's party or government in the past few days. Nobody has been available for an interview. Actually a lot of them are sick themselves. The president of Modi's party J. P. Nadda did hold a press conference a few days ago about another topic actually state elections. But as you can imagine he was asked about COVID. And here's what he had to say.   We are fighting it. Prime Minister Modi is taking meetings discussing taking very proactive steps.  So the message from Modi's party is the prime minister is on top of this. And he is actually holding meetings including one with - a virtual meeting with EU leaders today.  What about the vaccination effort? Is it in any way helping to slow the spread of the virus?  A week ago the government opened up eligibility to everyone over the age of 18. But frankly it was more of a PR stunt. At least that is what it looked like because there just are not enough doses to go around. India is actually the world's biggest vaccine maker. The Serum Institute of India has been having production problems. Its CEO hopped a private jet to the United Kingdom amid all of this. He is mired in disagreements with the government of India. And so the lesson here just may be about countries putting all their eggs in one basket. When it comes to vaccine production India relied on basically one company for the vast majority of its supply. And now you know everyone I know has had their vaccination appointments canceled. Only around 2 of people in India have received two doses of the vaccine.  NPR's Lauren Frayer in Mumbai. Thanks so much.  You are welcome.   This week's jobs report was expected to be a blockbuster but it turned out to be kind of a dud.  Employers added just 266000 jobs last month. That is far fewer than the month before. And the U.S. economy is still more than eight million jobs shy of where it was before the pandemic. At the White House President Biden tried to offer some perspective.   Look. We came to office. We knew we were facing a once-in-a-century pandemic and a once-in-a-generation economic crisis. And we knew this would not be a sprint. It would be a marathon. Quite frankly we are moving more rapidly than I thought we would.  The health picture has improved considerably since Biden took office and that is allowing many Americans to spend more freely dining out planning vacations. But the jobs recovery is moving more slowly. And that is why we bring in NPR chief economics correspondent Scott Horsley to tell us more. Hello.  Good morning Lulu.  Scott where did employers come up short last month and how worried should we be about that?  It is hard to know if this is a one-month blip or a more lasting slowdown. We saw some job cuts in industries that have been doing well like factories for example. We know that carmakers have had to idle workers because they cannot get the computer chips they need. Grocery stores and delivery services which thrived when we were all cooking at home and ordering online cut jobs last month. But bars and restaurants actually had a pretty good month. They added 187000 jobs. I talked to Katie Button who runs a restaurant called Curate in Asheville N.C. She says she is booked solid with customers. You might be able to get a table at 30 in the afternoon or 10 at night. But Button told me she is actually scaling back her operating hours because she says it is really hard to find workers.  I mean when I look on the job site there is not a single business in Asheville that is not hiring right now you know? It is more about the competition among everybody that is creating that issue right? I mean you cannot expect job placement of millions of people to happen overnight.  Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen says she thinks the jobs recovery will continue but she warned there might be some bumps along the way.  That is really interesting what she said there. Is there really a shortage of workers even though millions of people are still unemployed?  There are some signs of a lot of demand for labor. People who have jobs generally worked longer hours last month. There were fewer people working part time who want to work full time. Of course the real telltale sign of a labor shortage would be rising wages and there is not a lot of evidence of that. But White House economist Cecilia Rouse says some employers are actually starting to pay more to get workers.  We do see some increase in wages. And that is I think to be expected. We are coming out of a very deep recession and it is an unusual recession that was caused by a virus. And so it impacted not only the demand for workers but it is had a profound impact on labor supply.  By labor supply she means some people are justifiably worried about taking a job where they could be exposed to the virus. Others are still busy looking after children since a lot of schools have not yet reopened. And that is especially true of women. Women actually dropped out of the workforce last month even as hundreds of thousands of men started looking for work.  So what is the outlook for jobs going forward?  Well if the pandemic picture continues to improve we should see more hiring as schools reopen. That should make it easier for parents to go back to work. Another factor is supplemental unemployment benefits are due to run out at the end of the summer. Some employers think that will force more people to start looking for work. And a couple of states Montana and South Carolina plan to cut those benefits off early.  That is NPR's Scott Horsley. Thank you very much.  You are welcome.   More young people in the United States may soon be able to get COVID-19 shots. The Food and Drug Administration is expected to authorize the Pfizer vaccine for use in children as young as 12.  That decision is based on trials that show it is safe and effective. And it may be announced within days. Here to tell us more is NPR's Pien Huang. Hello.  Hi Lulu.  OK currently COVID-19 vaccinations in the U.S. are open to everyone 16 and older. What do we now know about vaccines for younger kids?  Well Pfizer the drug company released data at the end of March and it showed that their vaccine works in children ages 12 to 15 and that the side effects are generally not that bad. They had around 2200 kids in this age group in their clinical trial. And there were no cases of COVID in the kids who got the vaccine and 18 in the placebo group. And the vaccinated kids had strong levels of antibodies. Side effects were basically what we have heard about for adults you know pain in the arm headache fatigue maybe fever and chills especially with that second dose. Dr. Megan Freeman from the University of Pittsburgh told me that pediatricians like her are delighted.  This is what we have been waiting for this whole time - is to have both data in kids about the safety and the efficacy of vaccination and also to finally be able to get to this point where we have enough availability that kids have kind of moved up on the list.  It looks like the FDA is releasing a decision early next week with recommendations also coming from a CDC advisory committee.  Scientists have said kids are not at high risk of getting severely ill from COVID. So why should they get the vaccine then?  I mean that is true. Most cases of coronavirus in children are mild or not even symptomatic. But tens of thousands of kids have been hospitalized from veral hundred have died. And it is really hard to predict which child is going to be the one to get very sick or to get long-haul issues with breathing and headaches and fatigue. Kids under 18 also make up 22 of the population and they can spread the virus. So getting them vaccinated is like blocking off a virus transmission route.  And surely one of the benefits of vaccinating kids is that their lives could start to go back to normal which I know they all want very much.  Absolutely. Dr. Rochelle Walensky head of the CDC shared her 16-year-old son's plans for last night.   He is having two fully vaccinated friends over to watch a movie. It is been a long in coming seemingly mundane but now very luxurious event. And he can do so because he is fully vaccinated.  Teens have been missing out on a huge chunk of socialization this year. So getting vaccinated means they might not have to quarantine to play sports or wear masks at summer camp. It is going to help end this prolonged period of isolation for them.  So once the FDA gives the all-clear what happens next? I mean how will the younger age group be able to get it?  Well it is the same Pfizer vaccine that adults have been getting you know the same two doses spread out over three weeks. So teens will be able to get it in a lot of the same places adults go. Jeff Zients President Biden's coronavirus coordinator says as soon as the FDA gives the go-ahead they are making a special push.   Over 15000 local pharmacies will be ready to vaccinate 12- to 15-year-olds. And we are working to get more pediatricians and family doctors to offer vaccinations in their offices to make it as easy and convenient for adolescents to get vaccinated.  Biden is urging states to get at least one Pfizer shot to as many teens as possible by July 4. And that will help ensure that they are fully vaccinated by the time they go back to school in the fall.  That is NPR's Pien Huang. Thank you very much.  Thanks so much.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday May 8 2021. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And Lulu and I have more news interviews books and music for you on the radio.  That is right. Weekend Edition every Saturday and Sunday morning. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org. 