 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am Renee Montagne.   Today we begin a new series a season of Hidden Kitchens. It explores little known kitchen rituals and traditions. Each Tuesday for the next couple of months we will travel the world to see how communities come together through food.  Hidden Kitchens comes to us from our friends the Kitchen Sisters Nikki Silva and Davia Nelson. And today they take us to Sicily where the fight against Mafia crime syndicates has rippled into the world of food.  Lands seized from the Mafia are now being farmed by small agricultural cooperatives. They work under the name Libera Terra and aim to provide Mafia-free employment for Sicilians and organic products for a global market. The Kitchen Sisters call the story The Pizza Connection.  My name is Walter Bonano. I will be the guide during this tour. Follow me.   This is Museum of the Anti-Mafia in Sicily and my job starts from the sentence by a famous judge killed by Mafia in 1992 Paolo Borsellino. He used to say Talk about Mafia no matter how if I talk about Mafia I do not forget Mafia.   Come closer over there on the left the last of the godfathers Bernardo Provenzano. If you go to his former house now that house is a shop in which they sell tomatoes from his confiscated fields. It is a symbolic thing. We are taking back what they stole.   This sign here  that means Property Confiscated from the Mafia. My name is Gabrielle Mastrilli. I work for Libera Terra in Sicily. Libera Terra produce good organic food in the lands that was of the Mafia. A lot of people fighting for agriculture reform was killed by the Mafia and one of these was my grandfather.    My name is Don Luigi Ciotti. I am a priest. After the terrorism in Italy with the death of judges Falcone and Borsellino we started Libera Terra. Libera is getting this land and give them to young farmers that work in cooperative way. What we grow from this land can now be found in Italian supermarkets - pasta olive oil and mozzarella is organic produce is a slap in the face of Mafia bosses. It is the victory over crime.   We are getting up to the vineyards. This is all part of the confiscated property. I am Francesco Galante Libera Terra project. There are 40 people in the winery and in the vineyards. We are organic certified. To be organic was form of respect to start anew the idea of being kind to the soil itself to take poisons - symbolic and the real from the soils.    In our wine you can smell the sea and the mountains. My name is Angelo Sciortino and I am responsible of this field where there are grapes. We do not use a lot of machine in our production. We try to use as many people as possible. We still use the hands. Our goal is to give work.    Ten years ago when the Placido Rizotto Cooperative is started in this territory nobody wants to come here to work. They were scared. The Mafia they burned the field here just before the harvesting of the grain. Three years ago when we collect olives for the first time we had police around us all the time - yeah with guns. The last year Mafia burned the olive trees. They went there and they burned each one.  It is a sign. It means that the Mafia are still there. And if they can burn a tree maybe they can also kill you if they want. We do not want to go to the fields with police. It is a wrong message. We have to show to the people that to work with Libera it is a good thing.   Mafia is like a snake. It is very difficult to catch. Mafia here in this area near Cinisi was really powerful and they decide to build the airport here to control the drug traffic between Palermo and the United States. It was called the Pizza Connection because they used to transport the drug the heroin inside the tomato can to the United States for the pizzeria.   The Pizza Connection. Recently the CIA rounded up a number of people and charged him with being part of an elaborate heroin distribution network in America. Small-town pizza parlors were their cover.  In the early '70s narcotic distribution was taken over by the Mafiosi so what had been the French Connection out of Marseilles became the Pizza Connection out of Palermo. I am Peter Schneider Sociology and Anthropology professor at Fordham University. Heroin traveled from Palermo in all sorts of containers - in oranges in cans of tuna in diplomatic pouches under the gowns of nuns who were coming to collect money for their orphanages in Sicily. And yes some came in the cans of San Marzano tomatoes that were being sent to make pizzas.  From an economic point of view we are a very poor land because of Mafia. And youth unemployment 50 percent. Everybody goes to other countries. No factory no industries willing to invest their money in a land full of Mafia because you have to pay an extra tax the one called pizzo. They pay protection. In Palermo currently 70 to 80 percent of shopkeepers pay a form of extortion they pay the pizzo. And the idea of Addiopizzo is to say no to the pizzo. Farewell pizzo.     A half-dozen students very active in the anti-Mafia movement who are planning to open a cafe in Palermo. And one of them said suppose they come and what the pizzo? Why should anyone have to pay the pizzo. And they began printing of the little stickers that they put on light posts and store windows all over the city. All of a sudden these stickers appeared and no one knew where they came from.    My name is Valeria Dontanio. I am a lawyer. I am a member of the Addiopizzzo Committee. Tonight of the 28th of August 2004 we have covered the city with these stickers. It seemed as though we came out of nothing. But in 1992 many of us were in school and there were these massacres of Falcone and Borsellino. They became part of us. We smelled the terror and death of those years.  The Libera Cooperatives who are producing good wine good grains good olives were making a point of saying this food is pizzo free.   It is very very difficult to buy something to eat and be sure that there is nothing to do with the Mafia. When you eat food with the Libera Terra label you are sure that product and the worker they do not have nothing to do with the Mafia.  Libera Terra they have a wine called Centopassi. They have another wine called Placido Rizotto. When you drink the wine it is a way to remember the work of these young heroes killed by Mafia. So it is a very symbolic thing. Maybe from an economic point of view it is not a big business but I like the symbolism of it.   The Pizza Connection was produced by the Kitchen Sisters and Marie Doezema. It was mixed by Jim McKee. You can learn more about Libera Terra at npr.org.   From NPR News. 