 The title track from I Can Still Hear You begins with a clear pure solo.    Remember the words or the parts that you saved or carousel horses or how the summer behaves.  And then another voice joins and a sweet harmony rings out.    Or off in the distance remember me too because I can still hear you.  Two voices from a beloved musical family - this is Suzzy Roche and her daughter Lucy Wainwright Roche. I Can Still Hear You is the third album they have recorded together. And like a lot of things lately it is born from troubled times. Suzzy Roche thanks so much for being with us from Manhattan.  It is great to be here.  And Lucy Wainwright Roche thank you for joining us from Brooklyn.  Thank you.  Lucy I gather this is your composition written during these times of quarantine and concern. What can you tell us about it?  I wrote it right in the middle of the darkest part of the shutdown in New York. Everything was totally quiet outside except for sirens and then at 00 p.m. the clapping out the window for the essential workers. So I was just in my apartment by myself and thinking about the weird combination of everyone being separated. And yet it brought out a lot of connection at the same time. People were reaching out to people they had not spoken to in a while. People were maybe Zooming with people that they would normally not see for many months. And it just - in the time of isolation it was also connecting.    Between a few wild rides surrounded on all sides. I can still hear you. I can still hear you.  Suzzy Roche let me ask you - some of this album is rooted in pain and loss that is beyond the pandemic. I gather your sister Maggie died just about four years ago. How did that influence the music you have given us here?  I think it is really for me at the heart of the entire recording because it was devastating to lose her. You know she is my sister. And also I worked with her for my entire life. So it was a huge loss. And then my mother four months later - and also the world was in turmoil the entire time and has been for the last four years. So I was writing songs but it was hard to really write because you want to put out something that has some hope in it you know and also to soothe people. At least at this point in my life that is what I feel like I am doing.  Of course you Maggie and your sister Terry were The Roches. And on this album there is a new version of I think one of your best songs. Let us listen to a little bit of Factory Girl.    As I went out walking one fine summer's morning the birds in the branches they did gaily sing. The lad and the lasses together were sporting going down to the factory their work to begin.  Why did you want to do the song for this album?  Well for me it was had a lot to do with the MeToo movement. A lot of the songs I felt spoke to that. I wanted to make a record that was unashamedly in praise of women - not only for women but I wanted to celebrate women. And this song is a song about a working woman. Her suitor thinks she is beautiful but she refuses him.    Saying stand off me young man and do not insult me. For although I am poor sure I think it no shame. It is not to insult you fair maid. I adore thee.  The song I heard over and over and over again on tour with The Roches sitting backstage. They would be performing it and I always loved it. And then as I got older I love a lot of - this is a traditional song that is been adapted. And I love a lot of traditional songs but it is very hard to find traditional songs where the women triumph in any way . Oftentimes they meet quite a sad end .  Yeah. Suzzy Roche what is it like to sing with your daughter?  It is very deep. You know I never would have imagined that we would have made these records together. I do love to sing in harmony and I would not really be doing is singing right now I do not think if it was not for Lucy.    I think I am a soul. I think I am a soul.  She has a beautiful voice and she is very strong and fun. We have a lot of fun I would say.  I mean that in and of itself - as I do not have to tell you there are some mothers and daughters who love each other but could never work together.  Yes. I think that sometimes people who watch our shows  are partially watching thinking how happy they are they do not have to be on tour with their mother or their daughter.   But we have a good time. We share hotel rooms. We sit next to each other in the car all day and then stand next to each other on the stage. This is of course before the pandemic.  Yeah.  Now we just kind of wave from Brooklyn to Manhattan.  Suzzy Roche and Lucy Wainwright Roche - their new album I Can Still Hear You - thank you both very much for being with us.  Thank you.  Thank you.    Shopping for tomatoes... 