 We have arrived at a landmark moment in criminal justice. This week thousands of drug offenders receive early release.  They are walking out of federal prisons or halfway houses. They are beneficiaries of a nationwide change in ideas about who should be behind bars.  This first group is just the first wave. Tens of thousands of other prisoners may follow. For more we reached NPR's justice correspondent Carrie Johnson. Good morning.  Good morning Renee.  How many people are getting out of prison early exactly? And what do we know about them?  About 6100 prisoners are getting out early. They are mostly Hispanic and black men who have been incarcerated for drug trafficking crimes. And Renee they are getting out early because judges looked at their cases and decided they deserved a break and shaved off on average about two years from the sentence. This all goes back to a big decision last year by the U.S. Sentencing Commission which sets guidelines for federal crimes. The commission Democrats and Republicans voted to make changes to the drug laws retroactive for inmates who are already serving prison time.  And how does this work Carrie? Are all these prisoners going to be released in a single day?  An emphatic no. About 4000 inmates will end up serving shorter sentences. But many of them have already been living in halfway houses or home confinement for the past few months to ease their transition back to the community. They will be going back to places like Texas and Florida and California in large numbers also North Carolina and Illinois. But Renee there are also about 1700 inmates who are undocumented immigrants. And those people will not be released from federal custody.  And Carrie what will happen to these undocumented immigrants?  They are being transferred to ICE which is Immigration and Customs Enforcement. And authorities there are going to start deportation proceedings against many of them. Some of those immigrants may be on the hook for state or local crimes so officials are checking records across the country. And Renee members of Congress are already asking a lot of questions. What is happening to these undocumented inmates? The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee Republican Bob Goodlatte has sent letters to the Obama administration saying he wants those people moved out of the U.S. rapidly and he is going to stay on the case.  All right who is going to be monitoring all of those returning prisoners who are Americans and they will be inside the U.S.?  OK so remember that a judge has already considered each case and made a determination about public safety. The probation office will be watching these prisoners for a specific period of time. They have been preparing for this release for more than a year now. And they have beefed up hiring of probation officers devoting more resources to inmates who pose the biggest risk. And they say Renee though that the system is not perfect. Halfway houses are overstuffed. And there is not a lot of money to smooth out the transition so there are some open questions about the quality of services they are getting like drug treatment and job placement.  Well finally all of these prisoners coming out have been convicted of drug crimes. But are all of those crimes nonviolent ones?  Not necessarily. These people served time in federal prison and federal prosecutors usually do not spend time and resources to send people away for simple drug possession. Usually the offense here has been a drug-trafficking type of crime. They or their partner in crime may have used a weapon. But judges considered all those factors when granting them early release. And most of the time judges approved the request anyway. Look I know people are concerned about an increase in crime - a possible increase in crime here. Remember that most of these inmates were going to get out anyway maybe just two or three years from now.  That is justice correspondent Carrie Johnson. Thanks very much.  You are welcome. 