 Reggae music and the island of Jamaica - they seem inseparable. But lately a crop of artists from places like Hawaii California parts of Europe are proving that hit reggae music can come from anywhere. In the process they are raising some complex questions about culture and ownership. Baz Dreisinger reports.  Quick - which of these songs is by a Jamaican act? This one?   Or this one?   The answer is neither. The first is by Hawaiian artist J Boog the second by Alborosie who hails from Sicily. Both belong to a generation of reggae artists with two things in common they are not from the birthplace of reggae music and they are enormously successful. Neil Robertson is head of touring and live events for reggae label VP Records  In Europe they are all playing you know festivals 30-40000 thousand people. On club gigs they are all playing between a thousand and 4000 people a night you know what I mean? There is hardly anybody out of Jamaica that is drawing that kind of a crowd.  One European who can is Alberto D'Ascola known as Alborosie. He became the first white artist to be distributed by Bob Marley's label Tuff Gong. Alborosie discovered reggae at age 14 and eventually moved to Jamaica where he picked up local Patois.  It was love at first sight. A bredren gave me a Bob Marley cassette and I said to myself wow this is my music this is what I want to do.   This summer he released his third album. But he says being embraced by the Jamaican music scene did not come easily.  Culturally I still have many things to do to get accepted. I am always a white man in Jamaica so I try to move around and respect everybody.  But why should we respect these non-Jamaican acts? What makes them more than just lame imitations that some call Jafaicans? Neil Robertson has an answer.  The musicianship especially in Europe France and the U.K. as well - I mean these are top flight musicians in their own right. The skill level has gone to a next level. It is going to take a lot for let us say acts from Jamaica now to compete with these other acts.  Robertson who ran Alborosie's first U.S. tour is prepping the American debut of German artist Gentleman who is so popular internationally we might call him the Eminem of reggae.   On our shores Hawaii and California are the biggest breeding grounds for reggae. iTunes even bestowed its 2010 Best Reggae Album title not on a Jamaican but on the debut from Hawaiian band The Green.   Non-Jamaican artists like The Green often create musical hybrids blending reggae with rock and pop. Ziggi Recado was born in Holland to a Dutch father and mother from the Caribbean island of St. Eustatius. He says non-Jamaican reggae sounds distinct.  Jamaican artists are very much influenced by each other so everything coming out of there has that real Jamaican vibe. Being in Europe you get so much of different influences. I live in Amsterdam so I deal with all kind of different people. My band members are from Suriname and Curacao and the Ivory Coast. So you get I think a broader range of vibes.   The globalization of reggae incites a familiar debate around cultural politics. From jazz to rock to hip-hop white artists have negotiated the thorny boundaries of performing in a genre they did not invent. Sicily-born Alborosie says he needed to go to Jamaica and talk the talk.  When I reach there I said hi my name is Alberto. So I learned Patois. I do not speak English. Right now to me it is very difficult talking to you and try to make it sound proper. When I am amongst people they do not come to me say oh what is up man you know what I am saying? They say yo wha a g'wan mi brother. Yeah I am a dey-a you know? Everything all right. Yeah I am a dey-a good. Later seen. So that is my language besides Italian.  But JP Kennedy lead singer of The Green has never been to Jamaica does not speak Patois or see why artists like him ought to.  Non-Jamaicans doing it? I do not really know you know. Like if they can pull it off I guess it is kind of cool. But if I was a Jamaican I would probably be kind of against hearing fake stuff like that 'ecause I know that when I hear people trying to speak you know Pidgin or Hawaiian slang like it is a turnoff to hear people that do not naturally speak it speak it.  As for the Jamaican artists here's reggae singer Freddie McGregor on the vexed issue of cultural theft.  They are not stealing. Reggae cannot be stolen. Reggae is ours. They are not denying that they are in love with what we do and is trying to do it too. No no problem with that. There are lots of bands that I work with outside of Jamaicans who are great reggae musicians - Japan in particular. So you know it is just music and the love of it. And whoever plays it mon or whoever sings it it is a blessing.  But others worry that when it comes to the bottom line Jamaican artists are losing. Japan for instance has long been a big market for Jamaican music but these days local Japanese reggae acts outsell most visiting Jamaican artists. That frustrates Jamaican dancehall deejay Demarco.  What I want to see is the reggae artists in Jamaica make the same amount of money like American would do our music and they will sell millions. But we cannot sell millions? I do not understand that. I think we are probably doing something wrong.  Maybe it is simply easier for fans to embrace homegrown versions of a foreign music. Christoffer Mannix Schlarb AR rep for VP Records and CEO of Dub Shot Records is taking it one step further. He is working on an album called Dub Rockers which pairs Jamaican artists like I Wayne and Eek a Mouse with non-Jamaican ones like SOJA and Rebelution.   Basically the idea is showcasing what from our viewpoint is authentic imitation reggae I guess. You know I guess that is kind of an oxymoron but it is like that is really what it is.  So in the end maybe it is this simple if you cannot beat them join them.   For NPR News I am Baz Dreisinger.   This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Linda Wertheimer. 