 Thousand Oaks Calif. is a city northwest of Los Angeles. A few hours ago a gunman there opened fire at a bar and grill filled with college students. There are multiple fatalities and at least 11 people were injured in the attack. NPR's Kirk Siegler is at the scene. Hi. Kirk.  Good morning.  So what do we know so far?  Well as you can imagine it is still a very active crime scene. Information has been slow to come in. There is a lot of hearsay and innuendo and rumors so far but we have not been able to confirm that much because this just happened a couple of hours ago. I am standing just across the street from the Borderline Bar right underneath the 101 freeway. I have been watching a number of emergency vehicles stream by and some ambulances. Like you said we were told for sure that there are at least 11 injured in there the - inside the bar. Ventura County Sheriff spokesman Garo Kuredjian just told us a short while ago that the authorities have the place contained that there is no threat to the surrounding community. That was one of the big concerns here early on as you can imagine as this was unfolding - trying to figure out what was going on. So I am looking at a pretty still dramatic scene and unfolding and you know a large law enforcement presence as you can imagine.  Well as we said it was college night there and we have been seeing these images on television of very very young people. You talked to a couple of young women who were there. What did they tell you?  Well I talked to Erika Sigman  just as she had gotten out and reunited with some friends. She was very emotional as you can imagine.  Yeah.  She is a college student at Cal State Channel Islands just a bit up the road from here. She was in the bar when the shooting started. Let us hear from her now.  I heard something go off - obviously the gunshots - and I realized that it was not music very very quickly. And I heard everyone scream get down. I heard people start saying run. So I booked it to my car with a group of people because I lost them. I was not - we all kind of did not find each other so - till later - and hid behind my car for a little bit. It stopped and then there was a second round that went off.  And you can just hear Noel there Erika Sigman - a 19-year-old - very shaken up...  Yeah.  ...And told us that you know this is her safe place. She grew up in Thousand Oaks. She calls the bar like a neighborhood place that she always goes. And she was just exasperated that a shooting could happen here - just another shooting in America.  Kirk we have seen some confused reports on whether the gunman was among the fatalities. Do the police know that yet and do they know anything about this person?  We do not have anything more to report on that at this time. The situation as I said is changing by the minute. We are getting regular updates and briefings from the Ventura County sheriff and the public information officer out here. We have not been able to confirm - there were some early reports that there may have been more than one gunman. No one is confirming that at this point either. And we are just still waiting to see what is happening. We know that there are unfortunately multiple fatalities in there.  A lot to be determined. NPR's Kirk Siegler thank you so much.  Thank you. 