 Mabel is French and naughty. She eats underwear she interrupts parties she licks herself in public even and leaves a mess in her wake. And I am not even mentioning her intestinal challenges. Naughty Mabel is a French bulldog who is at home in the Hamptons. It is also a book ostensibly for children by Nathan Lane and his husband Devlin Elliott illustrated by Dan Krall. And Nathan Lane the Tony Obie Olivier and Emmy award-winning actor joins us in our studios. Thanks so much for being with us.  Well thank you for having me.  Is this a made-up dog or one you know?  The character is inspired slightly by our own French bulldog Mabel. But it just amused us the notion of an Eloise-type character but in the form of a French bulldog because not only are they a rather popular breed these days but they have this issue with snoring because of their snub noses and some flatulence issues. And it - you know they are an amusing dog. They really seem to have a sense of humor at times. Literally Mabel will look at me and do a take that could rival Buster Keaton's.  .  So we thought that was you know a funny idea for a character and then putting her in the Hamptons. And we also you know we had discussed - we did not want it to be autobiographical in that way.  OK so this is - the couple in the Hamptons is not a thinly disguised version of you and your husband.  No.  Without giving anything away it is quite an achievement for the illustrator to show flatulence.  To be honest with you when we wrote it we just thought it was amusing that you know she had a little gas.  Yeah.  And it was more of the silent but deadly variety. But Dan literally has turned it into a mass - it is a mass exodus. And this is huge billowing smoke - green smoke - that come - has seemingly come out of this little dog which seems to amuse children no end.  Yeah you are Nathan Lane one of the great actors of our time. Can I ask you to read...  Oh thank you.  ...A couple of pages of the book?  Oh sure. Well this is - she is been given a bath which she really does not care for and she cannot figure out why this has happened. So she says  I discussed this new wrinkle in my routine with my feline friends next door Smarty Cat and Scaredy  Cat. We all decided that there could only be one reason for my special bath. My parents were throwing a party. Smarty Cat and Scaredy Cat were jealous because the humans in my life throw fabulous parties while their human is a nice old lady who falls asleep watching late-night infomercials. They said I am lucky as well as naughty a frightening combination. Unlucky is more like it because that night I was sent to bed early alone bathed party-less . This injustice called for a response because...  I will add that you actually have her tucked in for the night the way you would tuck in a child.  Yes. Oh yeah she is in her bedroom.  Actually better than most children are tucked in I do not mind observing yeah.   Should I go on or...?  Yeah no just a couple pages.  Oh she says  because I live to party. My game plan was to try to blend in hoping they would not notice. Unfortunately they noticed. So did everyone else. You have never seen so many camera phones flashing - very red carpet. I was told parties are not for naughty little girls but what good is a party without naughty little girls?  Can I ask about the real Mabel for a second?  Sure.  How did she strut into your lives?  She was a present from the playwright Terrence McNally. And I was not so crazy about the idea of a dog. I like dogs very much but the notion of coming home after a show and having to take a dog out and then clean up after it was not so appealing to me. But Devlin really wanted one. And so finally I said OK let us just do it. And so they all went off to a farm in Pennsylvania with Devlin and Terrence and his partner Tom Kirdahy. And there were two little French bulldogs in a cage. And they were huddled together in a corner. It was a litter that had - many of the puppies had been taken and there was like this brother and sister. And - I know it is like Sophie's Choice. And you - if I...   A little different but go ahead yeah.  If I knew then what I know now I would have said to bring them both. But he took Mabel and they brought her home. And she was tiny - this tiny little black and white ball of fur. And not unlike the people in the book she is become our child. And you know as they say dogs can add years to your life you know getting that sort of unconditional love on four legs every day.  Is life more interesting because Mabel is naughty?  Well it is in the book. Although I must admit she has been to a therapist at one point. She...  The real Mabel the dog?  Yeah the real Mabel went to a therapist which is ironic after years of telling her to stay off the couch. But...  .  She...  I am sorry that is one of the funniest lines I have ever heard in my life.   Well thank you very much.  But you are - but you are serious. You took her to a...  Yeah no we had to take her to a behaviorist because for some reason she started nipping at the dog walker. And she loved this guy and it was very odd. And we could not figure out exactly why it was happening after years of going on walks with him. And now she seemed to have calmed down after that.  What is it like for you to write a book that is ostensibly for children? What is it represent in your career? Is it a relief? Is it...  Well as a kid I was a voracious reader. And I read all the children's books all the classics. And in particular I loved Stuart Little by E.B. White. It had such an effect on me. And just that - I like any book that starts with a matter of fact birth of mouse to a woman in Manhattan and nobody blinks. But so I have a lot of respect for people who do this and write children's books. And so it is very satisfying when I see just how much kids get a kick out of the character and enjoy it and - but really from my point of view I was hoping to create something fun for a parent to read. You know I just thought it would be a fun character to play and that hopefully the adults would get a kick out of it as well.  Well I tried it on our 9-year-old.  Yeah.  And the effect you would have wanted.  Oh that is - that is great to hear.  She loved - but putting flatulence in a book that - it is...  I know.  It is a killer item for a kid.   Literally. You know I try not to read reviews but some people have seemed quite offended by the notion of flatulence as a - and I believe as a cheap joke. But it only came out of the fact that it is a part of this breed. I deal with it all the time. You know you will be talking and suddenly you will very quietly hear  and you think oh no...  .  ... We better clear the room. So it was not you know - I mean I love a cheap joke as much as anybody. But it really was not that. It just came out of the breed itself literally and figuratively. And obviously it amuses kids and it must be used judiciously...  Yeah.  ...Tastefully.  Flatulence has to be tasteful.  I am talking about tasteful farts.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Nathan Lane his book Naughty Mabel and boy is she. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you so much. Greatly appreciate it. 