 While North Dakota's Standing Rock Sioux tribe continues to protest the Dakota Access Pipeline it is a different situation 150 miles to the northwest. There alongside the same river a different tribe welcomes the pipelines and oil development. Here's Amy Sisk of the public media project Inside Energy.  Here on Fort Berthold tribal members live right on top of pipelines. More than 4000 miles criss-cross this reservation home to the three affiliated tribes that call themselves MHA Nation. The reservation lies in the heart of the Bakken oil patch and oil production is embraced here. Edmund Baker is the tribal environmental director.  We are in this oil play already. We want to be able to do it responsibly. We want to be able to do it competently. We want to show other tribes that it can be done.  T.J. Plenty Chief is barreling across an oilfield highway in his semi. He owns this truck and two others as part of his trucking business. He is supporting a family of 10 and says truck drivers here can make good money - more than 90000 a year. T.J.  Before the boom you know I had to work a lot harder and work at other jobs I did not really care for as much working at the casino or whatever you know?  I am standing next to a pump jack that is pulling oil to the surface from deep underground. A decade ago there was almost no oil activity here. But today there are more than 1400 wells just like this one on the Fort Berthold Reservation.  We are trying to create a nation that really sustains itself through economic development and through its own abilities.  Dave Williams heads Missouri River Resources the MHA-owned oil company. He walks with me around Newtown with lots of retail and traffic heavy with pickups - a telltale sign we are in the oil patch. Oil's a way to help MHA's 15000 tribal members be self-sufficient and there is a ton of money involved - upwards of nearly 2 billion in revenue just since 2008. Here's tribal chairman Mark Fox.  All this high cost of living that the oil boom created - we are trying to alleviate that.  With the new apartments for residents a new health care system and payments of a thousand dollars to each tribal member three times a year with that oil wealth has come a spike in crime and some environmental risks.  And we sure as hell do not want to do it in such a way that we taint or diminish the value of our most important asset which is water.  One million gallons of wastewater leaked from a pipeline in 2014 threatening the reservoir holding the reservation's drinking water. Though they embrace oil production tribal leaders are also embroiled in a dispute over pipelines much like the Standing Rock Sioux to the south. They are concerned about a pair of new crude and natural gas lines slated to cross under the reservoir.  We are not against all pipelines the ones on our land. But what we are against is when pipelines come onto Fort Berthold through other entities and think they are going to develop or utilize pipelines without the approval of our tribe.  MHA Nation has tried to halt construction but a federal judge is allowing work to continue saying the company has the necessary permits from the Army Corps of Engineers the same agency Standing Rock is fighting in courts over the Dakota Access Pipeline. Like seemingly everything here in the oil patch there is a cost-benefit analysis to make. And here on the Fort Berthold Reservation they have decided that the pipeline infrastructure that they support and the wealth that it brings is for now worth the risk. For NPR News I am Amy Sisk in Bismarck.  She is with Inside Energy a public media collaboration focused on America's energy issues. 