 U.S. relations with Iran just got worse.  A top nuclear scientist has been assassinated and Iran is vowing revenge. What does that mean for the Biden administration's hopes to revive the Iran nuclear deal?  I am Scott Simon.  And I am Sarah McCammon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Joe Biden campaigned on rejoining the nuclear deal. The killing complicates that effort especially if Iran retaliates against Israel which it believes is responsible.  No comment from the Pentagon or the State Department.  Meanwhile another defeat for President Trump as an appeals court refuses to throw out Pennsylvania's certified election results.  And millions are traveling after spending Thanksgiving with family and friends. The big question - will we see another spike in COVID cases?  Please stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   OK a little recent history first - the nuclear deal was reached with Iran during the Obama administration with China the U.K. France Russia and Germany signing on too.  Iran stymied for years by economic sanctions agreed to curtail its nuclear activities and allow international inspectors if those sanctions were lifted.  But the Trump administration abandoned the Iran nuclear deal two years ago and Iran began violating the agreements earlier this year. During his campaign Joe Biden promised to rejoin the Iran nuclear deal if Tehran abides by the original terms.  Any plans to do so were set back yesterday when top nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh was killed in a drive-by shooting outside Tehran.  NPR's Peter Kenyon joins us now to talk about these developments. Hi Peter.  Hi Sarah.  Who is likely to be behind this killing?  Well President Hassan Rouhani is directly accusing Israel which had no comments. Rouhani said the assassination quote shows our enemies' despair and the depth of their hatred. Perhaps significantly he also said Iran would not rush to retaliate but would respond in due time.  And Peter let us take a step back here. This scientist allegedly led Iran's nuclear weapons program but that program was disbanded in the early 2000s. So why would he be a target now?  Good question. There have been assertions that some work continued in Iran until at least 2009. And Fakhrizadeh was said to be a top researcher in the area. But that is still more than a decade ago. Analysts have been grappling with this question of why now. Some are saying it could simply be an attempt to provoke a response from Iran and then that in turn could be used to justify military action against the Islamic Republic.  How much of a quandary does this put Iran in and by extension the incoming Biden administration given that both want to revive the nuclear deal which of course was negotiated by President Obama and which Trump pulled out of?  Right. There is no question this ratchets up tension sharply and that will make any attempt at reengagement more tricky more difficult. Former State Department official Mark Fitzpatrick wrote on Twitter that quote the reason for assassinating Fakhrizadeh was not to impede Iran's war capacity. It was to impede diplomacy. As for what President-elect Joe Biden might do he is already got a number of other priorities on his to-do list for his first hundred days in office. But Iranian leaders certainly have been publicly urging Biden to move quickly to reverse some of Trump's executive orders. For Tehran of course the No. 1 goal is always sanctions relief so it can revive its depressed economy. But even if Iran does not respond to this attack right away Biden will still be entering office at a time of heightened tensions. He is going to have to consider that when deciding whether to try to get the U.S. back into the Iran nuclear deal in particular or just improve the bilateral relationship in general.  Right. So what is the reaction so far from Iran and more broadly from the region?  Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is calling for a definitive punishment for those responsible. He did not specify where or when that might happen. Saudi Arabia's covering this extensively calling Fakhrizadeh the suspected Iranian nuclear mastermind. A member of the Israeli security cabinet is quoted as saying the story is the growing dread that a new U.S. administration will go back to the nuclear deal which he claims threatens the very existence of the Gulf countries. Palestinian Hamas movement on the other hand condemned the killing and offered condolences to Iran. Further afield the European Union called the killing a criminal act urged all parties to show restraint. And in the U.S. neither the Pentagon nor the State Department commented. One senior U.S. official did tell NPR that the killing raised fears of retaliation possibly against U.S. forces that are still in Iraq. And one last thing - a recurring theme among Iran's neighbors is the worry that if things do escalate it will be lives in the region that might be most at risk.  NPR's Peter Kenyon in Istanbul. Thanks Peter.  Thank you.   President Trump's losses in court just keep coming as he tries to subvert the outcome of the 2020 election.  Yesterday a federal appeals court in Philadelphia strongly rejected the Trump campaign's request to undo Pennsylvania certification of President-elect Joe Biden's victory there.  Trump also has his sights on Georgia but this time on two January runoff races that will determine control of the U.S. Senate. He is planning to travel to the Peach State to help Republican Senators David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler.  Meanwhile Mr. Biden continues to pick his cabinet while promising steady return to normalcy.  Here with more is NPR White House correspondent Franco Ordoez who is traveling with Biden in Rehoboth Beach Del. Hi Franco. FRANCO ORDOEZ  Hey Sarah.  So first how significant is this court decision in Pennsylvania? ORDO Well I mean it is another blow against Trump's efforts to overturn the election. As states certify their results courts are overwhelmingly rejecting these legal challenges for frankly lack of merit. And like so many others the judge in Philadelphia a Trump appointee by the way very plainly said that just calling an election unfair does not make it so. The judge wrote quote Charges require specific allegations and then proof. We have neither here. And he was joined in the decision by two other Republican-appointed judges. So you know strong stuff. But Trump's legal team says on Twitter that they will appeal to the Supreme Court.  Now all of this is putting Trump in a bit of a pickle in Georgia. He is claiming fraud without evidence and he is now trying to push back on concerns that some of his supporters may not show up in the critical Senate runoff in Georgia. Is there anything to that claim? ORDO Yeah he tweeted about that yesterday. He was responding to a story on the conservative website Newsmax about his supporters possibly boycotting the January 5 runoff. He tweeted quote No the 2020 election was a total scam. We won by a lot. And we will hopefully turn over the fraudulent result. But we must get out and help David and Kelly two great people. Again no evidence of widespread fraud but this is significant because there are concerns that Trump's fixation on making baseless claims have become a distraction and will hurt Republican chances in Georgia. And if Democrats win those races it would alter control of the Senate. So Trump is really trying to thread a needle here arguing the vote was fraudulent for him but that his supporters still need to vote in the Senate race.  And so the worry is that his undermining of the election results might actually depress Republican turnout. That is the worry for Republicans. ORDO Exactly.  And you are in Rehoboth with President-elect Biden. What is he up to this weekend? ORDO Not too much. He is here in this beach town where he and his wife have a vacation home. Because of the surging coronavirus he announced as he urged others that they were hosting a smaller Thanksgiving dinner - in his case with just his daughter Ashley Biden and her husband.   I know we can and we will beat this virus. America is not going to lose this war. We will get our lives back. Life is going to return to normal I promise you. This will happen. This will not last forever. ORDO But you know as Scott mentioned he is also building his cabinet many of whom are familiar names such as Janet Yellen who is a former chair of the Federal Reserve. He plans to nominate her as treasury secretary. His team says he will make more nominations this coming week including his economic team. And on Monday he is supposed to start receiving the daily intelligence briefing.  That is Franco Ordoez the White House correspondent for NPR News. Thank you so much. ORDO Thank you.   For Americans desperate to be with family and friends and for those trying to keep the pandemic at bay Thanksgiving could not have come at a worse time.  Health officials have pleaded with the public to limit their celebrations as the nation is experiencing a wide surge of coronavirus cases. We are now at more than 13 million confirmed cases and the numbers are rising rapidly.  Some people heeded the warnings but millions decided to travel anyway. Many others ignored the appeals and held large sit-down dinners indoors. How much could this further spread the virus? Put that question now to NPR health reporter Selena Simmons-Duffin. Selena thanks so much for being with us.  Hi Scott.  When will we begin to know the possible impact of the holiday on COVID numbers?  Well it is too early now - just a few days out. The forecast from AAA for this year was that 50 million people would be traveling for the holiday with the caveat that people were canceling plans so the real number might well be lower than that. And then remember it takes up to two weeks for someone to test positive after they have been exposed. Hospitalizations will rise after cases do. And then deaths will come after that. And many of these metrics are not reliable at the moment because not every state is reporting through the holiday and the weekend. It is very likely there will be a spike connected to the holiday based on past holidays like Memorial Day and Labor Day. And this current wave is already devastating without the added boost from the holiday. On average nearly 1500 people in the U.S. are dying of COVID-19 every day. And it is hard to fathom how it could get worse. But that is the direction things are headed.  And of course there was a public backlash in many places against warnings that were made just before the holiday and backlash against additional restrictions. Tell us more about what health officials are saying.  Right. The messaging from officials really hammered home the dangers of small household gatherings. And we know that gathering indoors is risky. It stands to reason that if eating with friends at your house is too risky to be allowed indoor dining at restaurants should not be allowed either. But Lindsay Wiley a health law professor at American University says consistency has been missing in some orders being put out by officials.  Rhode Island specifically says that you cannot have any gathering of any size even outdoors unless you have a caterer. If you hire a professional caterer you can have up to 25 indoors or 75 outdoors.  The difference of course is that one is restricting businesses that are struggling in the pandemic and the other is not. But that kind of logical inconsistency can really erode public trust because then these rules seem arbitrary. Some governors - Wiley mentioned her governor in Maryland Larry Hogan - have been forthright that the reason for not targeting businesses is that there is no money to help them out because of the congressional stalemate over COVID relief. And that is a real problem.  The Supreme Court - major decision this week - tossed out New York state's restrictions on religious gatherings.  Right. The Supreme Court waded into this issue this week in a big way. This has been a hot issue because of religious freedom protections on the one hand and evidence that religious gatherings have contributed to outbreaks. So this case had to do with attendance restrictions for religious gatherings in hot spots in New York. The Supreme Court ruled against New York Governor Andrew Cuomo. And Wiley he says this decision goes against lots of lower court decisions and is going to change how state and local governments craft their restriction orders.  Some justices of the Supreme Court explicitly have said that states cannot impose tighter restrictions on churches and synagogues than they do on grocery stores.  So Wiley predicts the public health messaging about small gatherings is going to continue after Thanksgiving because then there are going to be the same issues with Hanukkah and Christmas going forward.  Let me ask you finally Selena another news item this week - questions raised about the AstraZeneca vaccine and its efficiency is reported.  Right. So after happy news that the vaccine was quite effective AstraZeneca's vaccine experts who looked closely at how the company did their clinical trials said that the setup was a bit of a mess - different trial designs in different places mushed together to come up with promising efficacy results. Basically it raised a lot of red flags and the company has a lot of work to do to be more transparent about its results before scientists are going to be enthusiastic about this vaccine candidate. But I should say that the same questions do not apply to the Pfizer and Moderna vaccine trials. Those seem really solid so there is still some promising vaccine news to be excited about.  NPR health reporter Selena Simmons-Duffin thanks so much.  Thank you.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday November 28 2020. I am Sarah McCammon.  And I am Scott Simon. Our weekend version of UP FIRST is produced by a heavily caffeinated crew - Hiba Ahmad Samantha Balaban Andrew Craig Denise Guerra and Danny Hensel who says yeah he did not need any stinking coffee.   It is edited by Ed McNulty Martha Ann Overland D. Parvaz and Melissa Gray who says Danny doth protest too much.  Sophia Boyd directs this podcast and she leans towards a latte. Our technical directors are Patrick Boyd and Stu Rushfield - chocolate-covered espresso beans for them.  And keeping us all in line a difficult task our supervising editor Evie Stone executive producer Sarah Oliver and Jim Kane deputy managing editor.  UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. And you can follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter. And keep an eye on this feed for the occasional special episode.  And for more news interviews and fun you can find us on the radio.  ay and Sunday mornings. You can find your NPR station at stationsnpr.org. If you can please do not forget to donate to your local NPR station.  