 Americans serving overseas on this Veterans Day include General John Campbell. He is the new commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan. General Campbell has served numerous combat tours overseas and he carries three-by-five cards with names and stories of people killed under his command. Yesterday he came to a phone in Kabul and told us he does have a few new cards. When you look at those cards General are you clear in your mind what they died for?  Yeah. The hope that we brought Afghanistan over the last 13 years is quite remarkable. The Afghan people when I interact with them not only at the senior level but when you walk the streets of Kabul or other places they come up to you. They say thank you. They are very very appreciative. And they understand where they are today is because of a lot of the sacrifice not only from their men and women that have served but more so from the coalition.  General Campbell says we should make no mistake conditions are improving in Afghanistan. The government has changed. New schools are open. The economy is open to the world. Numbers show the results - life expectancy in whole country is up. But the war with the Taliban is still very much on. Campbell faces a tough job now - continuing to reduce U.S. forces - they are heading down to zero over the next couple years ending the U.S. combat role at the end of this year and turning over responsibility to the Afghan army.  They are the strongest institution in Afghanistan. That is the big difference. Three years ago when I was here if the Taliban took over a district center or some checkpoints it would be a rough time for the Afghan Security Forces to go take that over. Now there is no question in my mind that they have that capability and will continue to grow that capability over the years here.  That raises a couple of questions General. One has to do with the cost of Afghan fighting in lives. It is our understanding that over the last couple of years they have had close at 9000 troops killed in action which of course is several times more than the United States has suffered in the entire more than a decade of war in Afghanistan. And one of your subordinates Lieutenant General Joseph Anderson described that as not sustainable not a sustainable rate of casualties for the Afghan Armed Forces. What are the implications of that?  Well in the last two years as expected the number of casualties has risen. The greatest number of those casualties were an uptick on the police side. Again maybe a lot more on the Afghan local police which are way out in the outskirts and the far reaches of Afghanistan. They have minimal training. They do not have the same type of weapons as the army or the regular police. You know we are working very hard to continue to build their medivac capability so that when they do sustain casualties more of them would survive. The recruiting quite frankly they have not had big problems with the recruiting - and retention same thing.  You know when you talk about a lot of police being killed that makes me imagine Taliban forces finding places where the army is not and going after symbols of civilian authority local authority. That sounds like it could be serious if it continues over time.  Well they are going to try to go after those soft targets. And I think again the Afghan Security Forces understand that. There are some areas they will continue to work to kind of close the gap.  And you mentioned General that you feel that the Afghan forces can control the ground they are standing on. They can dislodge the Taliban from a position. How much do you worry about the areas of the country where the Afghan forces are not such as eastern Afghanistan where you spent a lot of time? A lot of those areas are clearly outside of government control.  There is 34 provinces here in Afghanistan. The Afghan Security Force is 352000 strong if they are completely manned at 100 percent - cannot be everywhere. The main cities I would tell you that the Taliban cannot get a hold on any of the cities here where the majority of the population resides. But in out in some of these very remote areas - up in Nuristan - rugged rugged terrain. You know they will continue to work through that piece. But what is happening I think now is you do have anti-Taliban movements starting in many places where the people are just fed up with the Taliban and their tactics. You know 94 percent of the civilian casualties in Afghanistan are caused by the Taliban. So they are fed up with it they are starting to stand up. I think the huge difference I have seen here is with the new administration - with President Ghani - with the CEO Abdullah. President Ghani said he is a commander-in-chief. He has told the army and the police you know I am responsible for your welfare. They did not have that before. He is talked to core commanders. He is gone to their training. He is visited military hospitals. And just that just having a commander-in-chief that does those kind of things has raised the morale and psyche of the Afghan Security Forces. And I think as we go on that is going to make quite a difference as well.  What if anything keeps you up at night?  Wow great question. There is - the entire time I will be here we will be in transitions - transitions of the people of the military of all the different ministers that they have out here - minister of locations places. So I think about those kind of things to make sure I made the right decisions to give our forces the right resources. Force protection is key and you are most vulnerable when you do go through transitions so we can never ever get complacent. But at the same time we got a long history here and we got great partnerships. A lot of what I do at my level is about relationships building. So what I do everyday is try to minimize those things I worry about. And I got great men and women from not only the U.S. but the rest of the countries that support this coalition that help me mitigate many of those risk areas.  When you say force protection of course you are reminding us that you have to spend a lot of your energy making sure that your own men and women remain as safe as possible given that it is a war zone which makes me wonder about another thing. You of course in the year to come are supposed to go from about 9800 U.S. troops and a few thousand coalition forces to I believe about 5000 U.S. troops and some coalition forces. Under what circumstances if any would you recommend to the president that that transition be slowed.  You know I constantly every day do assessments on risk to force and risk to mission. So I have that to my chain of command. I think it is still early in my tenure here to make any adjustments to the resolute plan but I do look at that every single day. And if I feel that as we continue to transition and retrograde some of our resources out of here if we are making some of those purely based on time and the conditions on the ground are not set for that then I owe that to the chain of command to raise that.  In your mind then the path ahead going from about 10000 U.S. troops down to 5000 and then the following year heading toward zero - is that an aspiration rather than an absolute plan then?  Well again I think many of these decisions are made back in the springtime - we started setting some of those assumptions way back in the fall of '13. Things change on the ground things in change in the world. As the commander on the ground that is what my senior leadership expects me to do that to take a look at what is going on the ground to make those assessments and provide my best military advice to my leadership. And that is what I will do.  Some people will know that in addition to advising the Afghan forces there is still a counterterrorism mission for the United States. Can you help us understand what that means? You are going after remnants of al-Qaida how many of them are there? Are there other groups you would define as being targets in this way that are legitimate for the United States to go after? And what restraints if any do you have in going after them?  Well Steve if I gave you all those answers I would be giving an advantage to those guys that I do not want to have that advantage. So I would rather not go into those kind of details. It is suffice to say that we do continue to have a counterterrorism mission. The forces that we have that do the CT mission - along with our Afghan partners because we have grown their CT capability and it is quite remarkable - I would not want to be one of the guys on the ground that has to go against that CT capability 'ecause you are going to have a bad day.  Respecting everything that you cannot say here General I wonder if there is something that we as citizens should just be prepared for. Should we be prepared for the likelihood that over the next couple of years even though the U.S. does not have a large-scale formal combat mission we may still hear from time to time of an American soldier killed in combat?  Yeah absolutely what I would tell you is that after one January we will continue to have 9800 men and women working here in Afghanistan - not out on patrols - but Afghanistan. And some areas will continue to be a very dangerous place an area of active hostilities. Remember the insurgents - you only have to be at one certain place when you are vulnerable to have a suicide vest go off or a truck full of explosives get into a marketplace. And again - so we will continue to do all the things that we can do on our own force protection to make sure that we safeguard the young men and women. As I told you earlier force protection is absolutely one of my highest priorities.  General John Campbell thanks very much for taking the time sir.  Thanks Steve appreciate it.  General John Campbell commands U.S. and coalition forces in Afghanistan. 