 Poppy is popular. But who or what is Poppy? If you see her YouTube channel - and millions have - you see a slight woman wide-eyed soft-voiced and Barbie blond. She sings softly or sometimes just talks and mostly keeps her face still - not bored but inscrutable.   Oh no. It got boring. My life is boring. How did this happen? I thought I was a YouTube star.  The formula sells. Poppy won this year's streaming online video awards for breakthrough artist and is now on tour to perform her first studio album Poppy.Computer.    P-O-P-P-Y I am Poppy. P-O-P-P-Y I am Poppy. P-O-P-P-Y I am Poppy. P-O-P-P-Y that is me. Welcome to the new world.  Poppy was created by Moriah Rose Pereira 22-year-old performer and Corey Michael Mixter a musician and video director who works under the name Titanic Sinclair. Is Poppy an act or art? Schtick or a statement about the Internet age? We searched for answers. You are from Nashville?  I am from the internet.  How is Poppy different from Moriah Rose Pereira?  I do not know who that is.  So you are not that person?  Mm-mm. I am Poppy.    I am so ready to get gone. I am feeling like a powerful girl.  There are millions of people who watch you on the Internet are not there?  Mh-mm.  What do you hope they feel?  I hope that I am the most special part of their day. I want them to feel like I am taking them to a part of their imagination that they have never experienced. Poppy's world's a magical place and it is the most free part of the entire universe.    OK. The world is ours. Moshi Moshi. Hi hello. Did you call to talk to me? Hajime konnichiwa. I like you and you like me.  Titanic Sinclair - where did these songs come from?  We took a whole handful of songs that we wrote in Los Angeles and went to Tokyo. We are both very inspired by Japanese pop music and just Japanese culture in general. And even though we were making a pop recording we both really wanted it to have that feeling that Japanese music gives us. There is something about Japan that really felt like these songs could benefit from.    Macaroons cartoons Dr. Seuss - that is my style. Bath salts start a cult I am so adult - that is my style. Modern French-Italian I am living on the edge. That is my style.   Poppy is an object. Poppy is your best friend. Poppy will break your neck. Poppy will be your pet.   Poppy is an object. Poppy is your best friend. Poppy will break your neck. Poppy will be your pet.  I tell you the part of the song that I - and I have been singing along to it. I think it is quite charming - the Poppy is an object makes me feel a little uncomfortable. I have met you. I do not think of you as an object.  Thank you.  .  I think it is fun to be uncomfortable sometimes. Being able to have that kind of Goldilocks zone where you are not too hot not too cold with comfort is missing a lot. And I think it motivates a lot of our - what we make if you look at your smartphone your glowing rectangle. Everything's really spoonfed especially in the United States. So for our music we really like to kind of work in that zone where you do not know if it is comfortable or if it is uncomfortable because we want people to use their imaginations and come to their own conclusions. Especially with pop music it is all just so just manufactured. And you have all these like trust-fund kids who bought their way basically into the business. And then their songs are all about how like rugged they are and how real they are.  Who are you referring to?  Oh right now Taylor Swift. She just released her Reputation album. It is like - reputation? - like if someone has to tell you what their reputation is like come on.  All right. Another song can we?  Yes.  Please.  This one's called Interweb.    I forgot what my password is. Maybe it is password123. I feel the technology beat deep inside of me inside of me. These days I do not have far to go now that I have got you on my screen. When you are down and you are alone I will be there watching you. I caught you in my interweb. I caught you in my Internet. Well maybe I am a spider. Or maybe I am a fisherman.  Now the implication of this song at least to me is that people watch you on the Internet and they get hooked.  Yes. Interweb is a song that is written about when people watch me online and they feel like they are walking into my world. You just got to commit.  Swipe.  Swipe.  Yeah swipe. Swipe and you are with Poppy.  We are just a bunch of monkeys with big brains swiping on glowing rectangles.  Yeah. I could have sent another version of me in here today - could have sent my hologram.    Oh. C'mon let us go. Let us make a video oh-oh.  Poppy....  Mm-hm.  ...Are you an actor or a person?  I am Poppy.  Do you want to be Poppy for the rest of your life?  I am Poppy for the rest of my life.  Does it take a lot of work in a day to always be Poppy?  Nope. It is a habit. I wake up - or do I even go to sleep?  Do you go to sleep?  Not usually. Sometimes I get powered down but that is it.  You must be tired.  They work me hard.    I fell in love with the man of the future. I have got a thing for my laptop computer. I am so in love with the man of the future. The only one that brings me joy is my computer boy. Boy boy boy boy boy.  I guess just one last question...  Can I ask you a question after this question?  Why do not you go ahead first please?  You first.  No no no you first.  OK. How long have you been doing your job?  Well a lot of people will say I never do my job - but a long time - more than 30 years.  Wow. So you have talked to a lot of famous people?  I have talked to a lot of famous people including you. Yeah.  Thank you. I like being here.  What would you like to say to our audience? Any words as we leave this interview?  Hello NPR. Thank you so much for listening to me Poppy in this interview.  Well that says it very nicely. Poppy and Titanic Sinclair. Poppy's new album their first full-length album is Poppy.Computer. And you are on tour now right?  Yes. I am coming everywhere in the future that is near.    Pop is when you hear a song and cannot help but sing along. It is when you hate it but you still appreciate it. Pop belongs to everyone oh. Pop is on the radio. And who decides we will never know. Somebody told me I should follow where the money goes. 