 All right we are now going to hear a doctor describing what is going to happen to a patient during a cutting-edge medical procedure.  So Karl's going to come in through this door. We will put him down on the ground restrain him.  Here he is. Chris ?  ...Induce him under anesthesia. To do that we have to put a bag over his head.  Karl is a bird. He is one of the animals living at the National Zoo here in Washington D.C. And as NPR's Neda Ulaby reports vets there had a problem. Karl's long pointy beak was worn down and he could not catch bugs.  We are in an animal operating room with six zoo workers and one Abyssinian ground hornbill Karl.  We will lay him down and we will see what he does.  Veterinarian James Steeil says this operation came from a Smithsonian Institution collaboration with the Natural History Museum. They found a skeleton there from another hornbill who lived in the zoo in the 1930s. They used a 3-D printer to copy that dead bird's beak and make Karl a new one. Now they are about to attach it.  So Neda I do not know how much bird anesthesia you have seen but for the most part they do an excitatory phase.  He is flapping.  Soon the bird goes limp.  You are all right Karl. All right Gil  can you hold the body?  Karl is about the size of a small turkey. His feathers look like crushed black velvet up close and his surprisingly long eyelashes are a little like a Muppet's. Vets keepers and volunteers monitor Karl's heart check his temperature. And while he is unconscious they trim his wide flight feathers and groom his gnarly claws.  His feet are cold.  I am going to trim some of his upper bill just where it looks a little jagged.  It took six months of tinkering before the team at the National Zoo figured out the right weight and heft and shape for Karl's new plastic beak. This is their second try at fixing it. Beak No. 1 fell off about a month ago. This time they are using glue meant for animal hooves. Zookeeper Deb Grupenhoff says Karl was super excited when the first bill was attached. Usually he is more restrained.  He is more of a gentleman but he kind of controls the yard he is in and he is constantly hunting the entire day. So he is walking around checking everything out monitoring his area.  Within a few hours Karl was back on his scaly black feet hunting and pecking and showing off his 3-D-printed prosthetic beak to visitors at the National Zoo. Neda Ulaby NPR News Washington. 