 And whenever Washington considers changes in health care or Social Security it must consider the AARP. That powerful lobby for older Americans offers many things to its millions of members and one of them is health insurance. Some Republicans say this has created a conflict of interest for the AARP in the current health care debate. NPR's Peter Overby reports.  AARP's size makes it hard to miss. Mr.  One out of every two people over the age of 50 is an AARP member.  The director of AARP's lobbying operation David Certner says that comes to 40 million members half of them 65 or over. AARP offers its members all sorts of add-on benefits they can buy including several kinds of AARP-branded health insurance and AARP supports the changes proposed in Congress right now. Critics say that is because the group would profit if the health care system gets rebuilt. Here's Republican Congressman Dave Reichert of Washington. Representative  There is an unusual advocate for these massive cuts to seniors' health care. It is AARP.  The health care legislation includes big cuts in Medicare spending. Democrats call those cost savings. Reichert and other Republicans say that really means cuts in services. Rep.  Are they truly looking out for the best interests of seniors? Could it be that AARP has a hidden profit agenda?  Well at least on this element of the bill AARP would lose not gain. Medicare cuts would fall hardest on the lucrative Medicare Advantage program which is one of AARP's products. Mr.  We do not have conflicts of interest.  AARP lobbyist David Certner. Mr.  We are driven by our policy. Our policy drives our advocacy. Our policy drives what we do in terms of our products and that is been the way it has been from the beginning.  AARP revenues show how big its insurance business is. Last year the group collected 222 million in royalties from UnitedHealthcare. The corporation provides most of the health insurance marketed under the AARP brand. That is almost as much as AARP collected in dues from its members. But David Mathis AARP senior vice president for health services says the organization offers what its members need to have not what corporate partners want to sell. Mr.  They come into the relationship knowing where that is even though they may not agree with us and we do not always agree with them. Everybody's eyes were wide open when we entered this relationship.  Maybe so but these questions of finances have been raising eyebrows for years. The two parties take turns being angry at AARP. Here's Republican Senator Alan Simpson in 1995. Senator  AARP has drifted considerably from any possible description of a nonprofit quote organization.  And Democratic Congresswoman Maxine Waters in 2003. Representative  Do not forget AARP is making a lot of money off of the insurance companies.  But a recent poll suggests none of those attacks has stuck. The poll was done by NPR and the Kaiser Family Foundation. It listed seven of the biggest players in the health care debate and it asked which ones inspired confidence to recommend the right thing for the country. AARP easily led the list among Democrats and independents. Among Republicans it tied for first with health insurance companies. So it is hard to tarnish AARP in part because it is not seen as serving either an ideology or a narrow economic agenda. Ted Marmor a Yale professor emeritus of public policy says that is a plus for AARP even if it limits what AARP can do on Capitol Hill. Professor  They live and die because there are 40 million people paying a small amount of money every year.  Forty million many of whom may be more interested in the travel discounts than in overhauling America's health care system. Peter Overby NPR News Washington.  And just a reminder of some of the election news we are following this morning. Republicans won a couple of governor's races yesterday. Bob McDonald was the easy winner in Virginia. Chris Christie defeated incumbent Democratic Governor Jon Corzine in New Jersey. In New York City Michael Bloomberg won a third term though the voting was much closer than expected. And in Upstate New York a heavily Republican district elected a Democrat to Congress because Republicans and conservatives had been deeply divided.   You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 