 The Constitution of the United States says an official may be impeached for a few things quote treason bribery or other high crimes and misdemeanors.  So that is the language in the law which gives House investigators power for the proceedings that go public today. A House committee calls two witnesses before TV cameras. The hearings will also be heard live on NPR. And the head of this inquiry is deciding which of those offenses in the Constitution might fit the president's efforts in Ukraine. Adam Schiff of California tells NPR he is not looking to punish the president but to protect the country.   The president gives every impression that he believes that he is above the law that he can solicit foreign interference in our elections he can do whatever he pleases that anyone who calls out his corrupt behavior is a traitor or a spy. That is a very dangerous situation for the country.  NPR's Tamara Keith is here to talk about today's hearings. Hi there Tam.  Good morning.  What is the behavior that Congressman Schiff - Chairman Schiff describes as unacceptable?  Essentially forcing or pressuring a foreign government to interfere in a U.S. election. And there are two witnesses that will testify today Bill Taylor and George Kent. Both of these are men who are widely respected diplomats lifelong public servants who have Ukraine in their portfolios. And in their private depositions they both expressed grave concerns with this sort of shadow foreign policy toward Ukraine that was being driven by the president's personal attorney Rudy Giuliani. They say it was running counter to U.S. policy and national security interests. A little bit more about them - Taylor is best known as the person who sent the text message that said quote I think it is crazy to withhold security assistance for help with a political campaign. And Kent is someone who said that this effort to get Ukraine to launch investigations that would benefit President Trump politically undermined U.S. advocacy for rule of law. Democrats are going to use their testimony to make a case for why all of this matters.  Well why all of this matters and of course they also have to make a case for why all of this would be impeachable. How does the chairman Adam Schiff fit the evidence gathered so far with those words we heard from the Constitution?  Well what Schiff is saying is that when the president used the words do us a favor in that call - that is now an infamous call with the president of Ukraine in July - that there was a sinister scheme there. Steve you asked Schiff this very question about the words in the Constitution.   There are any number of potentially impeachable offenses including bribery including high crimes and misdemeanors. The basic allegations against the president are that he sought foreign interference in a U.S. election that he conditioned official acts on the performance of these political favors.  And Schiff is not being definite in our interview but saying that he could very well conclude that that amounts to bribery - one of the words in the Constitution. And of course that other phrase high crimes and misdemeanors leaves lots of room for other kinds of charges. So how are Republicans Tamara going to defend the president?  Well they are saying that the president - in his skepticism of Ukraine and reasonable to have concerns about corruption. They say that there was no pressure exerted on the president of Ukraine that both presidents have said that and that ultimately the foreign aid - 400 million in foreign aid - was released without any investigations being launched.  How will each side make its case before the witnesses and draw things out of the witnesses today?  This is going to be unique. Each side is going to have 45 minutes to really build a narrative and tell a story. And then it will bounce back and forth. This is not going to be this sort of staccato back and forth that you normally see in congressional hearings.  A little bit longer question-and-answer session. Tamara thanks so much.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's Tamara Keith.   OK. To judge by his Twitter feed and his public speeches the president has been intently focused on the impeachment fight. But he has a very different duty today.  That is right. The president is hosting Turkey's president Recep Tayyip Erdogan at the White House today. And the timing of this is fraught. It was just weeks ago let us remember that President Trump moved U.S. troops out of the way of a Turkish invasion of Syria. Trump also wrote a letter to Erdogan appealing to him not to go too far a letter which Turkey's president openly ignored. So now the leaders of these two NATO allies are going to meet face to face.  NPR national security correspondent David Welna is trying to find out what each president wants. David good morning.  Good morning Steve.  And let us start with Erdogan. What does he want?  Well I am pretty sure that - while he will be defending Turkey's incursion into Syria he will also be seeking reassurances that the sanctions Trump slapped on Turkey for doing that - and then lifted a few days later when a cease-fire was declared - will not be coming back. Turkey's also been demanding the extradition of Fethullah Gulen. He is the Islamic cleric who lives in Pennsylvania who is accused of promoting the attempted coup against Erdogan three years ago. And Turkey wants the U.S. to drop charges brought last month against a state-owned Turkish bank that is accused of violating the trade embargo with Iran.  Oh yeah. It is been caught up in the whole thing with Iran sanctions and going after Iran's nuclear program.  Indeed.  Now what does President Trump want from Erdogan?  Well I think he wants Turkey's declared cease-fire in Syria to be made permanent although even Trump seems to question whether that is likely. His other big ask would likely be about the Russian S-400 air defense system that Turkey acquired this year despite being a member of NATO. And even though that is prompted the U.S. to kick Turkey out of the F-35 stealth fighter jet program the U.S. wants assurances that Turkey will not use that Russian system. But the Trump administration seems to be sending mixed signals. It has yet to certify that Turkey's crossed the line by making what is called a significant transaction with Russia which would trigger sanctions against Turkey. Last week in the Senate Democrat Bob Menendez introduced legislation to force the administration to weigh in on this. And here's Menendez on the Senate floor.   The administration is breaking the law by ignoring this provision and kowtowing to Ankara. According to U.S. law Turkey must be sanctioned for the S-400 system and it should happen today. Otherwise it will send a global message that we are not serious about sanctioning significant transactions with the Russian military.  David as we hear there the president may be sending mixed signals to Turkey but there is bipartisan resistance to Turkey in Congress.  There is indeed. But I think that Turkey is counting on Trump's close relationship with Erdogan to be a sort of a defense against anything that Congress might do. And that is why today's meeting at the White House does seem to be like a gift to Turkey that might keep giving.  David thanks for the insights.  You are welcome.  That is NPR's David Welna.   To hear one official put it Hong Kong is on the brink of a quote total breakdown.  Right. Those are the words police are using amidst some of the worst violence the city has seen since these protests began in June. Demonstrators caused disruption in the city for a third straight day. And their actions caused some subway lines to shut down. And now the authorities there say they are going to cancel school tomorrow for safety reasons.  NPR international correspondent Julie McCarthy has been in Hong Kong covering this story. Hi Julie.  Hi Steve. Good morning.  You know these protests - dramatic as they might be - used to be a weekend affair. And there were acts of violence but they were somewhat limited. What is changing?  Well first of all you had the death of a student Chow Tsz-lok. He is one trigger. He is become something of a hero to the protest cause. He was found unconscious in a parking lot in circumstances that are kind of murky. And that plays into the hands of anyone - many protesters who want to blame the police who deny any involvement. Now directly on the heels of Chow is death last Friday you had policemen shooting a masked protester Monday which enraged Hongkongers. He is in serious condition. But here's the nub. Protesters say they tried peaceful demonstrations got nowhere and feel justified in using ever-escalating violence. On the other hand police feel justified in using harsher measures to counter that violence. And you have this loop of retaliation. And a young woman who called herself Carlos  stood at the barricades of a university where students clashed with police and said that she has not seen it anywhere near as bad as it is now.  Just so worried and this is war. It is actually a war inside. It is just like a war.  And a graphic illustration of this deep division is the man who was set on fire because he evidently opposed the protest. He is in critical condition.  How is life in the city changing now that these weekend protests have become everyday protests?  Well you know things feel - certainly out in the midst of all of them they feel more dangerous. And protesters will tell me about preparing themselves to die. They are tired the police are tired which is when people overreact. Here's what the universities Steve are starting to sound like which is new.   Firing tear gas on campuses - again a new development. Students in this one are at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. And they are still holed up to stop any police advance. And as we speak students are stockpiling supplies in other universities anticipating clashes. Now as for this expanded action you know on the weekdays you paralyze a transit system in Hong Kong you will get people's attention. And what protesters hope to do is to sober the minds of their fellow citizens to get them to think about what is at stake more democracy and curbing what the protestors see as police abuse.  Well where is the wider public on all of this?  Well of course you know nobody likes their commute disrupted. But 19-year-old Cecilia Lu  says the spiraling violence scares her. Here she is.  I think this thing  is getting too violent. Because now we cannot go to school our courses are suspended. It is getting out of control.  Others said there is no equivalency in the violence of the protesters versus the police who have an arsenal the protesters do not.  Julie thanks for your reporting and please be safe.  Thank you.  NPR's Julie McCarthy in Hong Kong. 