 We turn now to someone who was on the streets of Paris last night. Victor Boyko is a Russian photographer who is working in Paris and lives close to the Bataclan the concert hall where the worst of the attacks happened. Mr. Boyko thanks for being with us.  You are very welcome. Hi.  You were walking home last night. What did you see? What did you hear?  I got out from the Metro one station away from my home which is what - the weather was good so I thought I will walk. And it started to become strange right after I came out from the metro. The police was stopping at every cafe and forcing people inside to the cafes. So the street looked pretty deserted while I was walking. Another policeman stopped me then said like can I go further? I said well come on I live there. I have to go. He said OK but please be careful. Then I came to the corner of my street and at the very far end of it is the Bataclan. And the street was closed. Police with vests and automatic rifles were like really carefully trying to get into the street. And I went to the bar which is like next-door which was open. I have many friends there. And from there we learned about the initial attacks. Then I - from there we saw many people rushing outside from our street and then we realized that was the Bataclan. In about half an hour the police officer came to the bar and said well we have to clean up this place. Then we were taken to the other side of the boulevard with absolutely no chance to get back where we were. And from there I saw how wounded people were being rushed to the ambulances. And then Francois Hollande came in about 45 minutes to give his speech to the press and I stayed there for about two hours.  Do you know anyone who was in the attack?  Well my neighbor living on my floor he saw it from the window. And he rushed down to help the wounded people. And he got shot in the arm.  Sound like a very brave man a good neighbor.  Yeah. He is not so young. I think he is 50 55 years old. And yeah it was the middle the night and he immediately rushed there to help someone. And I saw a lot of blood in our doorway and his door was open. I said what happened? He said I am in the hospital now taking - they are taking me to an operation. He got shot in the arm.  What is your neighborhood like this morning Mr. Boyko?  Deserted. The whole street is closed. There are only policeman there a lot of bloodstains - happily no bodies anymore on the street. As far as I can see the boulevard looks pretty deserted as well.  Victor Boyko in Paris thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you. 