 This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am Steve Inskeep. Two of President Obama's most important nominations of his second term made some progress this week. Federal Reserve chair nominee Janet Yellin went before a Senate panel yesterday and Jeh Johnson nominated to head the Department of Homeland Security was vetted on Wednesday. Their confirmation is expected by the full Senate but that could take time. Because South Carolina Republican Senator Lindsey Graham has placed holds on them and dozens more nominees. A single senator is commonly allowed to prevent a vote on nominations. As NPR's David Welna reports it is nothing personal - Graham's complaint concerns Benghazi.  Graham says his holds will continue until the Obama Administration meets his demands. He wants to interview five State Department employees who witnessed the attacks in Benghazi Libya last year that killed four other Americans including the U.S. ambassador. He also wants to learn what they told the FBI days after the attack to see if they really did believe it was just a protest underway there as administration officials said at the time or if in fact they saw it as a planned attack.  SEN.  This is a last resort by me. I cannot think of anything else to do. I am not going to allow the case of Benghazi to be closed until there is some independent oversight of the administration. And how can you tell the families you know what happened in Benghazi if you cannot talk to the survivors?  Late last month the State Department informed Graham that letting those witnesses testify could harm a criminal prosecution of the case and put them in danger. The South Carolina Republican responded by announcing his new pressure tactic at a Capitol Hill news conference.   So I am going to block future nominations coming from the administration not because I want to shut anything down it is because I want to open something up.  That something he added was the truth about Benghazi. He cited a report that had aired three days earlier on CBS's 60 Minutes.   You got 60 Minutes now validating it not was just a terrorist attack they knew who planned it and it was a long time coming.  That 60 Minutes report featured an on-camera conversation between reporter Lara Logan and a British State Department contractor she identified only by a pseudonym Morgan Jones. He claimed to have fought off attackers at the Benghazi diplomatic post where Ambassador Chris Stevens was killed.   Morgan Jones scaled the 12 foot high wall of the compound that was still overrun with al-Qaida fighters.  One guy saw me. He just shouted. I could not believe that he would seen me because it was so dark. He started walking towards me.  And as he was coming closer...  As I got closer I just hit him with the butt of a rifle in the face.  But CBS retracted the entire report last weekend after other news organizations reported that Dylan Davies - the contractor's real name - told the FBI he was not at the compound the night of the attack. Graham says that shows why Congress also needs to review the FBI's files.   You cannot have it both ways. You cannot use these files to impeach your critic and keep Congress from looking in the files to verify whether or not there was a protest. Cannot have it both ways.  Graham is seeking reelection next year and he is taken heat from conservatives for supporting the Senate's immigration bill. GOP political consultant Chip Felkel says Graham should expect a Republican primary.  I think he is got a race. I think he knows that. You have got four challengers another one came out this past week. The question is whether or not any of those can build - make a credible case for replacing Graham.  Felkel says Graham's focus on Benghazi plays well in South Carolina. Allen Olson is a conservative in Columbia the state capital.  I am all for it. We need answers on Benghazi.  Answers Graham promises he will get. David Welna NPR News the Capitol. 