  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. The lights are back on in Manhattan this morning but the effects of Sandy are still being felt across many states. Hardest hit of course are New York and New Jersey and we have several reports this hour. First NPR's Robert Smith was in Lower Manhattan last night as much of the service was restored and as he reports it came not a moment too soon  I found John Russo in Little Italy standing in the middle of the street staring up the inconceivable a working New York City street light.  When I see the light on in my building I want to about jump up and hug the bulbs.   Jump up and hug the bulbs. But then Russo thought of all the other stuff he could do with heat and light.  Ah forget it. I did 100 things. I took a shower. And then what else? I cleaned the house. I charged the phone. What else?  You name it. With the lights back on it is like every mundane thing in the world is now an indulgent luxury. Russo as big plan for the night? Wait for it. It is exciting.  So I might read three books two papers and a book.  In just four days New Yorkers had been reduced to marveling at how magical electrons can make miracles happen. I ran into Dominga Escobar who seemed drunk on her newfound power. She charged up every device in the house and...  Because we have Wi-Fi connections we were able to communicate with the outside world which obviously was very important.  So what were your first historic words to the outside world?  Oh my God aye aye ay. Finally we are back hello.  And here's how Escobar is going to celebrate.  Oh yes we are going to sleep with the lights on tucked away in our layers yeah.  Gone are the flashlights the headlamps the candles the huddling in the cold the long walk to the generator to charge the cell phone. And back are restaurants the neon the traffic lights bringing order to what had been a driving free-for-all. So who among us does not love a light? The only curmudgeon I met was Don Johns. He is a bicyclist who had grown used to the freedom of the darkness.  There is going to be more people out.  I cannot believe it. You like New York when it is deserted.  That is proof I live here.  There are still some dark areas of Manhattan. Con Ed was powering up the grid one neighborhood at a time. The restaurant Tortaria was on the wrong side of the light-dark divide. Steena Buck the manager was still working by candlelight. I do not know if anyone told you but one block away they got the power back on.  No we saw it. It is a little frustrating.  You know you are close enough to run an extension cord over there. I do not know if you have thought of that.   It is tempting. It is very tempting.  Oddly though the restaurant was full. People who could have walked over to the lighted neighborhood chose to stay here. One last night of adventure before civilization gets switched on again. Robert Smith NPR News New York. 