 President-elect Joe Biden's new national security team is getting to work. Here's how Biden put it yesterday.   America is back ready to lead the world not retreat from it - once again sit at the head of the table.  The task ahead of course is enormous. And to take it on Biden has nominated several former senior Obama administration officials to top national security positions - Alejandro Mayorkas as secretary of homeland security Jake Sullivan as national security adviser Avril Haines as director of national intelligence. Dennis Blair is a former Navy admiral who served as President Obama's first director of national intelligence and he joins us this morning. Admiral thanks for being here.  Good to be here David.  So this is kind of a moment you know well. You began your job as DNI in the White House under President Obama coming right out of the Bush administration - different policies different approaches. What is that kind of pivot like for them right now?  Well it is a case of learning where all of the levers are which will be easier in the case of the Biden team. It is a case of going from being able to talk about the big issues that face the country to the awful realization that you actually have to do something about them and make good things happen.  What do you mean by trying to figure out where the levers of power are? I mean could the levers have changed in these four years while some of these people have been out?  Well it is the combination of diplomacy use of the armed forces use of intelligence tools in order to advance American interests in a particular issue or region. And those things do subtly change over four years. And you find that the old mixture of those levers of power that we - the United States deploys is not effective in its original form and you have to alter them.  I just think about you know some of the relationships with European countries for example countries that - you know where leaders have been very frustrated with some of the language and rhetoric coming from the Trump administration. If you are in a new foreign policy team coming in I mean what are you doing to kind of build those ties back to form alliances that you want to bring back?  Well one of the things you have to avoid - and we noticed this in the Obama administration such a popular president coming in to such acclaim - was that you are not going to change with bedside manner and with a personal relationship fundamental differences of national interests. There is a tendency to think oh we are new. The American people just elected us. We are great. When I talk to - fill in the blank name the foreign leader - that person will be just as convinced as the American people were of the need to do it my way. And in fact real national interests underlie some of these differences and you have to be smarter about what it really is you are dealing with with another country that you have to work with or have to oppose them just thinking that the charm of your personality and the fact that you are new will make the real difference.  Is the challenge harder for Biden's team because of this delay we have seen - President Trump's refusal to concede the delays getting the Biden team classified briefings? I mean can a few weeks make a big difference or has that been a bit exaggerated?  That is been way exaggerated in my opinion. If people listen to your radio station read the paper and all they can keep up on the general trend of what is going on and the various important foreign policy issues for the country. The intelligence briefings really just fill in detail in 99.9 of the cases. There are a few very secret programs we have that have stayed out of the paper that are in place and they need to learn about those. But those take a long time to set up. They will be there. And so a couple of weeks does not really make any difference.  I want to ask you an important question. I mean the world is different now than it was four years ago. I do not have to tell you that. Is there an argument that maybe some new fresh faces and new ideas might be important as opposed to going with largely old hands?  Yeah it is a trade-off is not it David? I mean what  - the ideal thing is to have new fresh and exciting ideas from very experienced people who can make them happen. The idea that you bring in somebody who has no idea how it - how the sausage is actually made in Washington but has been sitting out there in - you name the place - thinking fresh thoughts it is just a recipe for disaster. And we have seen that time after time. What you want is somebody who has been using their time out of office to reflect on what happened to come up with new approaches that they would have liked to have had had they had more time or known more about it and then to put those in place when they come back in. And that is what I am hoping this administration will have. So I think - I think lack of experience is overrated as a qualification for...  .  ...For Washington effectiveness.  I was struck by something Thomas Wright wrote in The Atlantic - that Biden's presidency may be the establishment's last best chance to demonstrate that liberal internationalism is a superior strategy to populist nationalism. Is that what is at stake here?  It is in part. But - yeah. Yeah I think that is true. The support that is been lost for the traditional America-leading internationalist the-rest-of-the-world-looking-to-us diplomacy - the missing element was the effect on the domestic economy and the personal fortunes of many Americans. And we - the administration has to show that what is good for the country is good for America. And I think that can be done but we have to take more account of the ill effects of some of the international stance we take especially in the economic area. I do not think there any downside in the national security area. And we need to get back to working with our allies which was - is one of our huge advantages over the countries that wish us ill.  Dennis Blair served under President Obama as director of national intelligence. Admiral thank you so much.  OK. So long David. Happy Thanksgiving.  You too. 