 As we continue our election coverage today we are joined in conversation by Donald Trump who joins us from Falls Church Va. Mr. Trump thank you very much for being with us.  It is my pleasure Scott.  What is this election year been like for you?  It is been very interesting - lots of interesting twists and turns comments and questions.  I got to tell you I have spent a lot of time you know listening to Donald Trump over the past year year and a half. You would not be the cancer doctor from Virginia would you?  Oh yes sir. I am the cancer doctor from Virginia.  Oh my gosh. I guess we have dialed incorrectly. But we have got some time to fill. So can I ask you a few questions anyway?  I would love to answer your questions I think.  Yeah. Pizza or hamburgers?  Hamburgers.  Law and Order SVU or the original Law and Order?  Original.  Yeah me too. Do you have a wall around your medical office?  Four walls and a door...  OK.  ...And actually a big window.  A big window OK. So you - yes you believe in a wall - but windows. Are you - any relation to the Donald Trump who is running for president?  Probably way back in the mists of time. We both have roots in Eastern Germany as I understand it.  You have met him I gather.  I did have a chance to meet him at the cancer center I was working before where he inquired to see if the son of a friend of his could get on a clinical trial we were doing. Neither of us had any influence. But I took the opportunity to ask him for a donation to cancer research and to shave his head.  .  He declined to shave his head but did provide a nice donation.  I am just going to guess you can get a table at any restaurant you want.  If there are reservations available I usually introduce myself or ask for reservations as just Trump or Skip Trump.  I have heard Skip is your nickname.  Yes sir it is 'ecause that is the name my mother gave me to distinguish me from the real Donald Trump who is my dad.   So both you and the one running for president are kind of following in footsteps right?  Absolutely. We are second generation not the original.  Dr. Donald L. Trump - Skip Trump he prefers for at least the next few days - directs the Inova Schar Cancer Institute in Virginia. Dr. Trump thanks very much for being with us. And good luck to you on on Tuesday and every other day of the year.  Thank you very much. It is been a pleasure Scott.  And by the way NPR News contacted 17 Hillary Clintons for their comment. No Hillary Clintons responded. 