 For more on why the work for the supercommittee has been so difficult let us turn to NPR's Cokie Roberts. She is with us this morning as she is most Mondays. Good morning Cokie.  Hi Linda.  We just heard Senator Patty Murray talking about lawmakers being committed to a lobbyist rather than to the people. Sounds like Democratic talking points no?  Yes indeed and that is what the Democrats are doing. They are going after the Republicans saying that they are the tools of Grover Norquist who they are characterizing as a millionaire lobbyist. And Mr. Norquist who has exacted this tax pledge - no new tax pledge from the Republicans - is not doing anything to dispel that because of course it makes him seem very powerful so he likes that. The Republicans on the other hand are saying that it is all the president's fault that he was AWOL throughout these supercommittee deliberations and Mitt Romney particularly made that case throughout the day yesterday. But it is all political talking points as opposed to anybody really trying to get something done. There were none of those late night huddles in the Capitol yesterday that you know you and I have stood outside those rooms waiting for people to come out with some announcement. None of that was going on. It was all just blame game.  So what in reality is likely to be the effect of the supercommittee's failure if a failure is what we are looking at?  Well on the markets we will see. The principals on the committees seem to think that the markets have already factored in failure of the supercommittee and that there will be no big blowback. And they keep making the point that there will be these 1.2 trillion in cuts anyway and that that is what will have the effect on the markets so no one should panic. It is interesting to me that it is the Republicans who are the ones making this point most strongly so clearly they are feeling some of the heat.  Now aside from the politics what is the likely substantive result? Will there be any real deficit reduction? Will the across the board reduction that is supposed to happen if the supercommittee fails will that actually happen?  Well first of all the cuts are not even supposed to happen until 2013. Now you know very well what happens when we get into the normal appropriations process. Once the supercommittee disbands none of the special expedited procedures exist anymore. So we are back to a Senate that can filibuster a House that can figure out ways to spend money when people are not looking. So it is very very hard to see  look into the future and see that those cuts will really happen. And there are all kinds of other things to factor in there the extension of the payroll tax break unemployment benefits all of that will be something on the table. And you know so the big hope is that the economy grows and those things will be essential to that and that the country is home free. But it is hard to see our way from here to there and of course there is also that big question of the Bush tax cuts expiring at the end of 2012 and what the Congress decides to do about that.  Well let us not let a Monday go by without a small handicapping moment in the Republican presidential field. A couple of weeks ago you said watch Newt Gingrich and we are watching him climb the polls.  Yes but I think we might be watching him sink in the polls after a bad week for him. And I do not know who is next Linda as the not-Romney Rick Santorum perhaps. He seems to be all over Iowa and Ron Paul he stays sort of steady in the polls and he is not running for Congress again so you might watch him for a third party race even if he does not win the nomination.  NPR's Cokie Roberts thanks very much.  Thank you Linda.   You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 