 And I am Scott Horsley traveling with the Obama campaign. Actually the president's campaign travel is finished. Mr. Obama spent the night at his own home in Chicago. Today's plans call for some TV and radio interviews and maybe a game of basketball with some friends. Mr. Obama's last reelection rally came last night in Iowa where 20000 people gathered just outside the caucus headquarters where he launched his first presidential campaign more than five years ago.   This is where some of the first young people who joined our campaign set up shop willing to work for little pay and less sleep because they believed that people who love their country can change it.    Meet me in a land of hope and dreams.  Mr. Obama was joined at rallies throughout the Midwest yesterday by Bruce Springsteen whose anthem We Take Care of Our Own provided the theme song for this year's campaign. Springsteen who also performed for Mr. Obama in 2008 told supporters it is up to them to keep the hopes of that campaign alive despite the fierce challenges of the last four years.   I have lived long enough to know that the future is rarely a time rushing in. It is often a slow march inch by inch day after long day.  This campaign has also been waged inch by inch. The president and his advisors have always known they face a tougher contest than they did four years ago. They have relied on a huge network of volunteers to go block by block signing up new voters and persuading supporters to get to the polls.  Jim this is Barack Obama. It really is.  Last night Mr. Obama dropped by the German Village campaign office in Columbus Ohio to cheer on those volunteers in person and by telephone.  Well listen I heard all the doors you have been knocking on and all the work you have been doing and canvassing and I just wanted to say thank you.  The Obama team believes they come into Election Day with a small but persistent polling advantage in Ohio and other critical states as well as a head start thanks to early voting. Political advisor David Axelrod scoffs at Republican claims of a late-breaking wave for Governor Romney.  Our views are based on cold-hard data. Theirs is based on this kind of mystical faith that there is this hidden vote that is going to come roaring out on Election Day and in most cases overcome a disadvantage that they have from early vote. I can tell you we are utterly confident that we are going to win this race and they will be left to explain why the mythical wave never came.  Campaign aides are quick to add they are taking nothing for granted and they promise a robust effort to get out the vote today. But speaking to supporters in Cincinnati over the weekend Mr. Obama allowed himself to look beyond Election Day to what might happen if he is given a second term.   I intend to win Ohio and I intend to win the presidency one more time. But even after that I am going to need all of you involved to make sure that we do not let up.  If he does win Mr. Obama hopes the election results might persuade Congressional Republicans to come to the bargaining table on issues such as tax policy and immigration. He said he is willing to negotiate with lawmakers from both parties but he is also vowed not to trade away core Democratic priorities such as the new health care law Medicaid and funding for family planning.   That is not bipartisanship. That is not change. That is surrender. That is surrender to the same status quo that is been squeezing middle-class families for way too long.    Oh we dream baby now surrender.  In order to make that stand with Congressional Republicans though Mr. Obama first has to win today. Scott Horsley NPR News Des Moines.   You are listening to PR News. 