 I wrote a new gospel song. It is called Roll Me Up and Smoke Me When I Die.  Ah the great Willie Nelson.    Roll me up and smoke me when I die. And if anyone do not like it look 'em in the eye...  Roll Me Up and Smoke Me When I Die is also the title of Willie Nelson's latest autobiography. And note - I did say latest. You have written at least a couple of other autobiographies. What else did you have to say that you could not satisfy with song writing?  Oh nothing.   That is not entirely true. We spoke with Willie Nelson on his tour bus which was making stops in Austin Texas. And this book includes notes and letters from Willie's family back home to go along with what he calls his musings from the road.  Yeah it is kind of like riding down the highway looking out the window which is what I do about 22 hours every day and just sort of writing down my thoughts. It is more of a diary I guess than anything else.   Play it little sister.  For those who do not know your story you do give us little snapshots of different chapters of your life. You grew up in Abbott Texas.  Right.  You and your sister Bobby were raised by your grandparents. And your sister makes music with you to this day. What was happening in that household that turned both of you into musicians?  Well we both grew up in a Methodist church there in Abbott and started out doing a lot of gospel songs together. and then - well there was a guy a blacksmith in Abbott and he and my granddad both had blacksmith's jobs. I hung around there a lot. And he had a family band. He just let me play because he knew I wanted to work and needed the work. So I played a guitar in a big polka band with a lot of horns and everything. So fortunately no one ever heard me because I was not that great. But I was nine or 10 years old and making eight to 10 dollars a night. So it was easier than picking cotton.  Your book is called Roll Me Up and Smoke Me When I Die which some may understand to be a reference to marijuana. But you started smoking cigarettes first right from a very early age?  Actually I stared smoking grapevine you know or cedar bark - anything that would roll up and smoke. Even one day they had this laxative out it was called Black Draught and I said hell I will try that. It did not work but...   When did you stop smoking cigarettes and why?  I had gotten up to two maybe three packs a day. And my lungs were bothering me and I would had pneumonia two or three times. And I was also smoking pot and I decided well one of them's got to go. And so I took a pack of Chesterfields and took all the Chesterfields out rolled up 20 big fat ones and put it in there and I have not smoked a cigarette since then.   Getting back to the book the book is threaded with short essays written by members of your family writing about you. Whose idea was that? You do not strike me as the kind of guy who would solicit a lot of adulation from your family members.  I wanted to know what they were thinking.   Did you tell them listen you got to keep it clean and leave out the bad stuff?  Leave out the bad stuff and just you know just tell them what I am telling you to tell them you know. And no I am serious. They put their own thoughts in there and I think they did a great job. I was proud of them.  How many - you have a lot of kids. How many kids do you have?  Gosh I do not know.   I have six or seven or eight and a bunch of grandkids and a bunch of great-grandkids. And I am proud of all of them.  I would like to read a little bit of an essay that you son Micah wrote about you.  Right.  So Micah Nelson writes For those who still believe Santa Claus is not real clearly they have never met my father. The invaluable things I have learned from him over the years simply through observation are more than I can describe in any language. It is a blessing to have been raised by someone so wise and humble. He is an elder of the human tribe and young beyond his years. I love him more every day. That is pretty big.  That is pretty good yeah. He will get an A-plus from me on that one.  Have you ever fallen short as a dad?  Have I come up short? Oh I probably have many times. You know when you travel as much as I do you are away from your family a lot and that is not the best for relationships as I found out along the way.  If you do not mind I am going to ask a personal question. You had another son Billy with your first wife and he died early in his adult life. But in the book you reveal a lot about yourself and your family but you do not say how Billy died or what kind of toll it took on your family.  Well I just think it was very personal and that kind of information was just not meant for the book. And those in the family know all the details and I did not think it was necessary.  You do spend some time thinking about the spiritual dimension of life. Are you a religious person?  Oh I do not know. I am sure in a lot of ways I hope I am. I have been working every Sunday morning for many years so I do not even get a chance to go to church and Sunday school like other people do. And so my church became the bus and my body the temple as you know the Bible tells us. So we were all in our church every day.   You include the lyrics to your song Come on Back Jesus in this book which is a pretty lovely image because you are asking him to bring John Wayne along with Him when He comes.  Right.  How come? Why Jesus and John Wayne?  Well you know things have gotten tough down here. I think He needs to bring a little muscle when He comes along.  Just come on back Jesus pick up John Wayne on the way.    Time to take off the gloves. They just do not respect peace anymore. But if you have ol' John Wayne we know he can swing from the floor. While he kicks their butts we will just stand there and watch him and pray. So come on back Jesus and pick up John Wayne on the way.  Willie Nelson. His new book is called Roll Me Up and Smoke Me When I Die Musings from the Road. Mr. Nelson thanks so much. It is been a pleasure.  Thank you. Same here. Come see us sometime.  Will do.  All right.    The world is getting crazy and it seems to get worse every day. Come on back Jesus and pick up John Wayne on the way.  And you can read an excerpt from Roll Me Up and Smoke Me When I Die at nprmusic.org. This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. 