 To introduce our next guest we are going to play a couple of songs compare and contrast. She does. First Devil's Got Your Boyfriend from Tracy Bonham's new album.  Ms.    me like in the movies like perhaps the body double - a doppelganger. He called me from his car while his hands were on her. Oh what an animal - animal. Loud say it loud and clear...  There is an urban beat. But now try this...   This song is called We Moved Our City to the Country. It practically screams green mist hollers gentle rolling hills. The contrast is the art and it reflects the art and life of Tracy Bonham. Her CD is called The Masts of Manhatta. Tracy Bonham joins us from New York. Thanks so much for being with us. Ms.  Thank you.  And so what set this into motion for you? Ms.  It was during the time in my life where I was writing a lot about the duality of living in the city and in the country. I had just married my husband we were exploring upstate New York in the Catskills. Mainly because we knew if we were going to stay sane while living in New York City we are going to have to find a little getaway place. And coming back and forth from the city songs were emerging just about you know what it is like to be transplanted up into the country. We are city folk and I realized at one point wow I actually have a record and I would like to release it.  So give us some idea about the rhythm of your life between the city and the country. Ms.  Well you know at first it became it was one of those things that you felt like you were being pulled one way and the other and one way and the other. But now it is just become this flowing thing. It is just a part of our lives. It is not a question.  Let us get to this new CD. I want to play my favorite song... Ms.  Okay.  ...on this CD if we could. Ms.  Sure.  And you refer to this as the song that changed your life. Ms.  Interesting. What could it be?  Ms.   Chinese lanterns strung above downtown Los Angeles. Glow softy makes the  at the party sooner or later sooner or later sooner or later it all belongs to them. But for this moment for this moment it belongs to us. Wake up baby open your eyes look where we are today. Ms.  You know I took a kind of a classical approach to writing the music for this. However the lyrics are about a text message that I received...  Ms.  ...that did change my life. Jason and I were friends at the time and I was on the road and I was being a little grumpy as one can be you know when you have got a 20-hour ride ahead of you. And he and I were having a little conversation via text. And I had complained. I would said oh gosh I am not ready for this ride it is really tough and my guitar player's got a buzz on in the backseat and this is going to just all go wrong. And he responded to me your night is wide open. That stopped me you know in my tracks and I went whoa. And I think the love affair began right then.  Ms.   Your night is wide your night is wide open.  You should explain youre married to Jason Fine who is the executive editor of Rolling Stone. Ms.  Mm-hmm.  It is got to be a tough audience to have at home.  Ms.  Yeah but when he likes something...  Ms.  ...it is the greatest feeling in the world.  The named Masts of Manhatta borrowed from - let us say for an end -borrowed from a Whitman poem? Ms.  Yes. And actually I think the original text he leaves off the end the island was actually called Mannahatta.  Mm-hmm. Ms.  Spelled M-A-N-N-A-H-A-T-T-A by the Lenape people that is what they were called. Whitman was referring to the buildings of lower Manhattan as masts of a ship.  Yeah. Ms.  And the poem struck me as a celebration of the city but also finding the balance. I think I really connected with this poem because he was finding a balance. He was finding stillness in the moment. And it is a daily you know its a daily thing. You have got especially living in the city you have got to remind yourself to not let it get to you.  Ms.   I would like to be my own best friend. Turns out there is no reciprocal feelings. What a total snob hoo hoo hoo hoo hoo hoo. Sometimes I write her letters and I have seen her hands and I know they are not broken. So...  Little kind of pep talk you give yourself?  Ms.  Yeah. Yeah. It is the ego talking about the higher self as if the scene was some playground recess or something.  Ms.   So I let it slide let it slide let it slide. Day-to-day rejections. Still I cannot erase cannot erase cannot erase feelings that we are close...  I just love that like some playground recess.  Ms.  Well you know how catty it can get...  Yes. Absolutely. Ms.  ...when you were younger. Yeah.   Tracy Bonham's Reciprocal Feelings from her new CD Masts of Manhatta. A song I have to ask you about its called Angel Will not You Come Down. Who is the angel Tracy?  Ms.  Well this song was written probably around the nine month 10 month mark of our adoption. My husband and I are in the process of adopting a child. And you know with the start of a family and the idea of starting a family there is a lot of questions and a lot of hope and then a lot of frustration. So I decided to sit down and write to our mysterious prospective child.  Ms.   You add up the hours days and the minutes if there is any sense to this it will all come to total your greatness make up for what we missed. Not like we have got high standards. It is not like we got big demands. It is not like we are looking for perfection a godlier connection or something to make us complete. But angel will not you come down will not you come down?  It is pretty nice that you write a you write a song to the child youre going to - the child is in your life already. Ms.  Yeah. Exactly. I mean the child is definitely in our lives and also could be in the world at this point and that to us is exciting and I love the idea of you know when the child old enough when that child actually realizes that you know that this process we you know it was a seed and we are all excited and you know in that - it is weird bit I just thought of this the Whitman poem he actually speaks to the future reader.  Yeah. Ms.  And so I kind of feel like it is a similar thing where I am speaking now but it is in a future time and then those times will kind of mold together.  Well Tracy been delightful to talk to you. Ms.  Thank you very much. It is great to be here.  And good luck in everything okay? Ms.  Thank you.  Tracy Bonham her new CD is called The Masts of Manhatta speaking with us of course from New York.   And you can hear a couple of songs from Tracy Bonham's new album at NPRmusic.org. This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon.  Ms.   Will not you come down? 