  Adam Schiff closed impeachment hearings this week with the Democrats' case against the president quoting the late Elijah Cummings.   We are better than that. Adjourned.  Impeachment now moves into a new phase. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Plus fresh protests against the Colombian government in Bogota.  Colombia is just the latest country swept up in a wave of discontent across Latin America. We will tell you about those demonstrations.  Plus the epidemic of missing and murdered Native American women.  Many cases go unreported and there is no government database.  Now Attorney General William Barr is announcing a new Justice Department plan to address the crisis.  Please stay with us. We will give you the news you need to start your weekend.   After a second dramatic week of testimony the public phase of the impeachment hearings appears to have wrapped.  The action has mostly centered on the House Intelligence Committee and they have still got some work to do despite the holiday. And for more we have NPR's Claudia Grisales. Claudia Adam Schiff ended these hearings with that dramatic bang of the gavel but the next phase is private - right? - and quite work intensive.  Yes. So now it is up to the Intelligence Committee to put together a report on its findings from its probe. That report will pull from thousands of pages of testimony from witnesses and once complete it could then go to the House Judiciary Committee. I spoke to Democrat Hakeem Jeffries who sits on the panel. He says it is a wait-and-see game and he also says members are waiting for President Trump to turn over evidence in his defense but it does not seem they are holding their breath. Let us take a listen.  The president still has not presented a single piece of exculpatory evidence to explain or provide an innocent justification for the abuse of power that was undertaken by him when he pressured a foreign government to target an American citizen.  So plenty remains to be seen here.  Yeah up until this point the House Judiciary Committee has played a mostly supporting role in this process. So what happens when their panel receives the report that the Intelligence Committee is going to do?  Yeah so this is where the Judiciary Committee could take center stage in the inquiry once again and it is possible this stage of the process could pick up when members return after the Thanksgiving recess. There is an array of efforts that could take place for Judiciary members. They could hear from House Intelligence members who can present their case for possible recommendations for articles of impeachment and witnesses could testify as well. Next Judiciary will decide whether to move forward with these articles of impeachment. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other Democratic leaders such as Judiciary Chairman Jerry Nadler will likely guide these next steps.  All right. There is somebody else in this of course and that is President Trump and he has complained quite a bit that he has not had an opportunity to defend himself against the accusations. And we should say that he said that while he was on an almost hour-long interview on Fox  Friends. Is there a procedural opportunity for him to do that in the next phase?  Yes he can present evidence in his defense. As Speaker Pelosi noted earlier this week he can submit testimony under oath. However the president has made clear that he feels this process is out of his hands although he has directed officials in the administration not to play ball in the form of testifying or submitting documents. So we could see more of the same in this next stage of the inquiry. But we should note while the president has so far bypassed opportunities to defend himself in the House he is keeping a close eye on the Senate if he is impeached. In recent weeks he is hosted lunches with Republican senators and in recent days White House officials met with a group of Republican senators to map out a potential trial. It is a reminder although the president does not appear interested in these procedural opportunities to mount a defense in the House he is already gearing up for the Senate. And as he mentioned in this Fox  Friends interview he said frankly he wants a trial.  Yeah. And we should mention that the Senate is in friendly hands. So that would sort of indicate why he is more keen on that happening.  Exactly.  Claudia Grisales is NPR's congressional correspondent. Thank you so much.  Thanks for having me.   Protest and unrest have spread across nations in South America in recent weeks.  This morning's headlines take us to Colombia. That sound you are hearing is of a protest last night against a 9 p.m. curfew imposed in Bogota.  Colombians have taken to the streets to express their unhappiness over a range of issues and their displeasure with the president Ivan Duque. Reporter John Otis joins us from Bogota. John thanks for being with us.  Thanks for having me Scott.  And what issues have brought people into the streets?  Well Scott they are angry over a great big long list of issues actually. They think President Duque has not supported Colombia's peace treaty which ended a long guerrilla war back in 2016. They also are calling for more protection for human rights workers hundreds of whom have been targeted and killed by criminal gangs. And they are also worried that the government is going to cut salaries and pension benefits so there is some economic issues in there as well. And so this is what is led to these really very large protests that we saw both on Thursday and yesterday on Friday.  I gather the protests themselves so far have been mostly peaceful but there are things elsewhere going on in Colombia and nearby that have not been.  Yeah. I mean the protests here in Colombia have been largely peaceful. But towards the end of the day both on Thursday and Friday there were outbreaks of looting and vandalism and a total of six people have been killed here so far in Colombia. And all over Latin America actually there've been a lot of protests some of them violent. You know in Bolivia this month protesters helped bring down President Evo Morales after a fraud-marred election in Chile. The protests broke out over a hike in subway fares that led to a lot of burning and looting. And in Ecuador the government there was nearly toppled when it raised gas prices. So there is a lot of unrest and anger in this region. But the issues seem to be you know a little different in every country.  President Duque has been in office just a little more than a year. What is he attempted to do in response?  Well you know that is one of the problems. Even before these protests began government officials were claiming that they were part of this broad left-wing conspiracy to topple governments around Latin America. They really focused on sending in the police and army troops ahead of time to search homes for weapons and they kind of painted the protesters more as kind of bandits and vandals rather than people with you know legitimate issues to protest about. That caused a lot of anger and that actually swelled the protests. It made them a lot bigger. So now President Duque has come out and said OK we are going to start a national dialogue about these issues starting next week. But you know his response has really kind of been part of the problem it seems.  Colombia has been stable for quite some time a number of years. Are these protests unsettling for a lot of people in the region?  You know that is exactly right. These protests here have caught people a little bit by surprise because Colombia has always been you know a very institutional country despite guerrilla wars and cocaine - drug-related violence. There is been a lot of government stability and economic stability. That is kind of one of the hallmarks of this country. There has not been a coup d'etat here since 1953. And even that curfew that was imposed in Bogota last night that was the first time that is happened in 43 years. So you know at least for now it seems like people are just you know pushing for the government to change its direction rather than as in other countries to try to bring down the government.  John Otis in Bogota Colombia. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you.   For many years now Native Americans have been complaining that law enforcement is ignoring a crisis in their communities. They - and especially women - suffer the nation's highest rates of disappearances murder and domestic abuse.  Yesterday Attorney General William Barr visited the Flathead Indian Reservation in Montana and said he is going to try to do something about it.  Montana Public Radio's Aaron Bolton was there. Aaron the statistics on this issue are staggering and we do not even know the full extent of the problem right?  Yeah it is a topic that elected officials and law enforcement have really started responding to in the last few years as tribes have been drawing attention to available data. The National Crime Information Center says roughly 5700 Native people in the U.S. were reported missing in 2016 but only 116 of those reports found their way into the Department of Justice's own missing persons database. And here in Montana Native people account for a fourth of all missing persons but they are less than 10 of the state population.  Wow.  And Vernon Finley with the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes told Attorney General Barr that one white person can go missing and the whole country will pay attention but a thousand Native people can disappear and no one seems to care.   Our people the value that they feel in our country when they see the type of coverage and they see the type of activity that happens over one person versus 1000 - are we 1000 less?  So getting attention from the U.S. attorney general on this issue sounds like a big deal. What did William Barr say his Department of Justice is going to do?  You know Barr said yesterday that the Justice Department is launching a three-pronged approach. It is hiring 11 coordinators in the Midwest and Western states who will help tribal and state law enforcement work with new FBI response teams Barr says will help solve cases.   For example Child Abduction Rapid Deployment Teams Evidence Response Teams cyber agents to take digital evidence and Victim Service Division Response Teams.  Barr also said the Justice Department will start analyzing missing persons databases to get a better idea of the scope of missing Native people nationwide and will figure out ways to better track and respond to reports of missing Native people. And he says that'ill help the Justice Department take meaningful action to curb violence against Indigenous people.  And how are Native people responding to this announcement?  You know everyone at yesterday's announcement seemed really excited about this saying that they are happy this is a full-blown initiative and not just words. And a lot of what Barr said the Justice Department will do is outlined in a bill that is making its way through the Senate right now. But he said the department wanted to take action ahead of that bill passing. So to many that was an act of good faith by the Trump administration. But a lawmaker for the Navajo Nation was a little bit more critical saying the extra resources are welcome but still not enough compared to the scope of the problem. She called for the government to fund victim advocates and to help prevent abductions in the first place.  Aaron Bolton is a reporter from Montana Public Radio. Thank you very much.  Thank you.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday November 23. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. Not to mention Monday too soon but you can find UP FIRST right back here when the weekend is over. And of course you can follow us on social media.  That is right. You can follow us on Twitter at upfirst for your daily roundup of the most important stories of the day.  And speaking of stories you know you can hear those on our radio show too.  You certainly can. You can find NPR's Weekend Edition on your NPR station or at stations.npr.org.  