 And here we are the last day of this seemingly endless campaign season. And David at this point it is probably good to talk a little bit about expectations right?  Yeah definitely - because you have President Trump he keeps saying there should be a result tomorrow night. But actually our election system just is not built that way. The election is over after the votes have been counted. And judging by early voting data and the number of absentee ballots requested there are likely going to be an historic number of votes to count. So that is the reality. And nevertheless though President Trump keeps saying that he would like fewer votes to be counted. Here he was talking to reporters on a campaign swing through North Carolina last night.   I think it is a terrible thing when people are - or states are allowed to tabulate ballots for a long period of time after the election is over because it can only lead to one thing. And that is very bad.  Now those comments have led to concerns that the president might try to claim victory whether there is a decisive result on election night or not. Joe Biden responded with this at a campaign stop in Philadelphia.   President Trump is terrified of what will happen in Pennsylvania. He knows the people of Pennsylvania get to have their say - if you have your say he does not stand a chance.  NPR's Tamara Keith is with us this morning on this Election Day eve. Hey Tam.  Good morning.  So precious few hours left for both of these candidates - how are they spending these - this time?  They are going to squeeze every second out of it. It is you know a sprint to the finish. President Trump is going to have five rallies in four states today. Former Vice President Biden has events in Pennsylvania and Ohio Ohio being a late add. So they are going to be all over the place .  They are doing it.  Yeah.  So let us talk about some of the messaging here. Everywhere he goes President Trump has been undermining people's faith in mail-in voting. I wonder what stands out to you about how he is talking about that and what his campaign has been saying about this now the day before the election?  You know in a lot of ways this seems like the conclusion of a long arc. The president has been trashing vote-by-mail for months. His supporters listen to him and they did not vote by mail as much as Democrats did. And most of them are expected to vote in person on Election Day. As it happens Election Day votes are counted in some key states earlier than vote-by-mail ballots. Yesterday Jason Miller who is a campaign adviser was on TV and he said that the campaign thinks that they will be ahead in a lot of states on election night. But then he falsely claimed that Democrats are going to try to quote steal it back when in reality votes that come by mail are the same as votes that come in person. Some just might take a little longer to count. When I was out with the president on Saturday as he campaigned in Pennsylvania he said it would be quote bedlam in our country if there was a long wait for results.  And again the election is not over until the votes are actually counted. So you have already outlined sort of the effect of this especially the undermining of mail-in voting - the president's supporters he expects to just show up on Election Day. What have been some of the other effects of this messaging?  Yeah. The president's also been telling his supporters to go watch the polls which is causing Democrats to warn against voter intimidation. We have also seen progressive groups organizing protests for tomorrow night including near the White House out of concerns that the president will try to declare victory without having won. And then there are these Trump caravans including one that surrounded a Biden-Harris bus in Texas forcing them to cancel events.  OK. So Tam the candidates we have said they have precious few hours left. What are their closing arguments?  Well on Sunday former Vice President Joe Biden did hit back at Trump stating flatly the president will not steal this election. As for his closing argument it is a lot like his opening argument. He has been remarkably consistent talking about the soul of the nation though also talking about coronavirus and what he sees as the president's failures on that. President Trump for his part is repeating a line that he has been saying for a while now which is this idea that he is done more in 47 months than Biden has done in 47 years in public life sort of running as an outsider even as he is been president for four years and saying on the coronavirus that he wants everything reopened and back to normal and that we are turning the corner even though as we know the numbers do not look great.  NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith. Thanks Tam.  You are welcome.   So we described this election as historic because of the deep political divisions in this country right now. But of course this is an election that will be written about for generations because it is happening during the most devastating pandemic to strike this country in a hundred years.  Yeah. I mean the polls are going to close on Tuesday night just as the United States faces record-high levels of the coronavirus. There were nearly 100000 new cases documented in just one day over the weekend.  No better person to talk to than NPR's Allison Aubrey who joins us now. Hey Allison.  Good morning Rachel.  What do the numbers tell us right now? Not...  You know...  ...Good news.  Right. New cases have been averaging about 80000 per day. That is about a 40 increase compared to mid-October. And with this Rachel has come an increase in deaths. Over the last several days nearly 1000 people in the U.S. have died from COVID per day on average. And perhaps the best measure of where we are headed - hospitalizations. Some hospitals are filling up. For instance hospital beds in metropolitan areas including Atlanta Minneapolis Baltimore were at 80 capacity or above as of last week. And cases continue to rise in these areas.  So are we likely to see new restrictions?  You know we are already seeing some. In New Jersey parts of Illinois there are new restrictions on businesses. Last week a judge in El Paso County Texas issued a type of shutdown order on nonessential businesses. In Maine bars were set to reopen this week. But of course that is not happening. And Governor Janet Mills announced other measures including lowering the limits on indoor gatherings. Former FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said yesterday we are probably going to need more aggressive actions to control the spread around the nation.   Things are getting worse around the country. I think Thanksgiving is really going to be an inflection point. I think December is probably going to be our toughest month. But when you look at what is happening in states right now you are seeing accelerating spread. We are right at the beginning of what looks like exponential growth in a lot of states. This is very worrisome as we head into the winter.  So  in other sort of depressing news the CDC recently put out this new report talking about just how easily the virus can spread from person to person in the same household right?  Yes. Yeah. The study found that after a first person is diagnosed in a home at least one more person is quickly infected in well over half the cases. Important to note here Rachel - even with children who are asymptomatic or have only mild symptoms the study found that when kids 12 and younger tested positive for the virus they ended up spreading the virus to someone they lived with about 53 of the time. That is why people who have COVID or suspect they have COVID are urged to stay in a separate bedroom use a separate bathroom if possible and to wear masks especially in shared spaces. And remember the incubation of the period is up to 14 days. My son who was exposed to the virus at college tested positive on his 14th day of quarantine.  No way.  Yes. Thankfully - just as he was getting ready to leave - thankfully he is asymptomatic. But the point is Rachel you cannot shortchange this isolation period.  Right. NPR's Allison Aubrey. Allison thank you.  Thank you Rachel.  So just like in the U.S. COVID numbers in the U.K. are on the rise.  Yeah. The government there imposed tough restrictions earlier this year to try and slow the spread of the virus. Now with COVID case numbers spiking yet again England is heading into another lockdown on Thursday which is expected to last four weeks.  We have got NPR's London correspondent Frank Langfitt with us. Frank good morning. Tell us about these new restrictions.  Yeah. I mean it is interesting Rachel. Just listening to Allison Aubrey I almost feel like we are the ghost of COVID future here...  .  ...In the United Kingdom. I mean it is so familiar what Allison was just saying.  Yeah.  So what we are going to see on Thursday - pubs restaurants bars shutting down nonessential retail. It is not going to be severe - as severe as the first lockdown so schools and universities will stay open. But there is going to be of course another economic hit here. The government will continue to give money to people who are furloughed up to 80 I think of their salaries. It is worth pointing out that the problem is not just here in the United Kingdom. It is spreading in other parts of Europe. France went into a lockdown on Friday. Germany goes into a partial lockdown today.  So - I mean this is a change right? Not long ago Boris Johnson the prime minister said a second lockdown would be a disaster. So what changed for him?  Numbers are out of control. And I think that his scientific advisers have been very clear to him about the risks. So one government estimate that the prime minister talked about on Saturday - up to 50000 cases a day. That is from a low in the summer of maybe 600. We could have a far higher peak sooner at the rate that we are going here in the United Kingdom if something is not done. The prime minister talked as high as 4000 deaths a day which is I think much more than we saw last time. And it could overwhelm the system just as Allison was talking about. And so Boris Johnson on Saturday night he talked about one section of England what would happen there to the hospitals if nothing was done.   The current projections mean that hospitals in the South West will run out of capacity in just a matter of weeks unless we act.  Which obviously would be bad - so let us talk a little bit about what this is going to look like. You said that it - these restrictions are not going to be as severe as the lockdown measures that happened in the spring. Schools are still going to be open. I mean how did the U.K. find itself though in this same place seven months later?  Yeah this does - this is sort of really painful 'ecause it does feel like we have been here before. And even listening to the prime minister on Saturday - and he is saying the same things he said back in March. So one thing clearly not enough social distancing - I will give you an example. Just recently on Saturday night cops had to break up a rave in Bristol with 700 people. So I mean I guess wanting to have fun before lockdown. The - another thing  - fascinating research has been done by researchers in Switzerland and Spain that shows that perhaps a majority of the new cases in recent weeks are connected to a variant of the virus that was actually - appears to have been imported to the U.K. from Spain by British travelers over the summer after lockdown was lifted. Now that does not mean that that variant is driving the second surge but it does mean that it did come in here and maybe not enough was done to prevent this. Just this morning I was on the phone with Emma Hodcroft. She is an epidemiologist at the University of Bern  in Switzerland. She is the lead author of the study. And I asked her how she felt about this discovery.  It is a feeling of disappointment because it shows that even though we did try hard over the summer it was not enough.  And now people are stocking up. I just want to get my hair cut on Saturday and the barbershop was full.  NPR's Frank Langfitt from London. Thank you Frank.  You are very welcome Rachel. 