 Deaths and injuries at a music festival in Houston.  As the crowd surged toward a stage panicked and crushed people there for the sold-out Astroworld event at NRG Park.  We have the latest. I am Scott Simon.  I am Danielle Kurtzleben and this is UP FIRST from NPR News. At least eight people have died and more than a dozen are hospitalized. Some 50000 people were reported to be attending.  Meanwhile in Washington D.C. a huge spending package on roads and bridges heads to the president's desk.  While his other priorities like early childhood education clean energy and paid family leave continue to be negotiated.  And video that shocked the nation gets played in the courtroom as three men stand trial in the killing of Ahmaud Arbery.  Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend. Authorities in Houston are saying what happened Friday night appears to have been a stampede. The crowd at NRG Park suddenly rushed forward during rapper Travis Scott's appearance at his Astroworld Festival.  Houston Public Media's Paul DeBenedetto has more and joins us. Paul thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you.  What do we know so far?  Well local officials say the crowd started to surge a little after 9 p.m. during a Travis Scott set and the rush towards the stage caused a panic. People started to pass out and collapse. That caused more of a panic. And now at least eight people are dead and more than a dozen are hospitalized including 11 with a cardiac arrest.  Were there guards paramedics emergency personnel on hand?  There were actually. There were hundreds of police and security on hand. There was a local field hospital on the grounds that treated throughout the day about 300 people. But by the time this happened Houston police and fire officials say that the rush just kind of came very suddenly and they were quickly overwhelmed.  Any indication Paul about what caused that rush?  There is not. And police and fire officials are stressing that they do not have all of the information yet. There have been rumors that have been swirling on social media. None of that has been verified. There is still technically no official cause of death for the people who died and the medical examiner will make a final determination. Harris County Judge Lina Hidalgo - she is the top county official here. She said that among those injured were people as young as 10.   Our focus right now is to support the families of any victims to make sure that we support them in identifying any victims to make sure that we are conducting an investigation not jumping into any conclusions.  There is a reunification center at a nearby hotel. It is called the Wyndham Hotel. And police and fire officials are asking anyone who has not been in contact with a loved one at the festival to head there.  How many people attended this festival?  The estimates are about 50000 people today. It was a two-day festival. This morning you could see a sort of surge of people. There was a video that was circulating of a surge of people that were breaking down the initial barriers to get in. It is a really popular event every year. Travis Scott took out a full wraparound ad on the cover of the Houston Chronicle yesterday. Other artists like Bad Bunny and Earth Wind  Fire are also scheduled to perform. But obviously the rest of last night was canceled and tonight's performances are also canceled.  Houston Public Media's Paul DeBenedetto thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you.  An infrastructure bill is headed to President Biden's desk after months of negotiation and just plain wrangling. Late last night the House passed the 1 trillion measure which includes significant investments in roads rail and broadband.  And that was only after a long day and night of internal Democratic politicking. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi had planned to pass both the bipartisan infrastructure bill the Senate approved this summer and a broader social spending bill.  But the speaker admitted she would have to delay action on the bigger bill while some members get detailed cost information.   Some members want more clarification or validation of numbers that have been put forth that it is top-line that it is fully paid for. And we honor that request.  NPR's Deirdre Walsh covers Congress and joins us now. Deirdre thanks so much for being with us.  Good morning Scott.  One part at least to the president's agenda has gotten through the House. What is in the bill?  This is really a major accomplishment. Previous presidents have tried and failed to pass smaller infrastructure bill. This one has money for roads bridges broadband projects water systems airport upgrades. The Senate passed it in August but progressive Democrats wanted to move it in tandem with that broader social spending package. This was actually Pelosi's third time she brought up the bill. This time it turns out third time was the charm. Thirteen Republicans backed it. Six Democrats voted no because they really wanted first to pass that broader spending bill on child care and health care. Even though this was just one part of Biden's Build Back Better agenda it still has a lot of federal money going out the door for projects that are going to generate jobs and upgrade badly outdated transportation systems. This now heads to the president's desk for his signature.  What happens now to the rest of the president's plans the ones that cost 1.75 trillion projected over the next decade? Is that in jeopardy of not passing?  Well moderates and progressives in the House are really now coming together on that scaled-back bill. It was originally 3.5 trillion. The holdup yesterday on voting on that bill came down to five centrists as we heard from Pelosi who said they really want to see cost analysis before a vote. But Pelosi and other leaders sound confident they can pass it later this month. This process has been so messy. Last night the president was making phone calls to bridge the divide between his own party. The House did advance a procedural vote and they are going to bring it up later this month. But you know Democrats who lost the governor's race in Virginia this month feel the real sense of urgency to show they can actually deliver on their campaign promises.  Deirdre what is in the broader bill? And would it as constituted now pass the Senate where of course they need all 50 Democratic votes?  Right. And the wrangling's still going to continue. It is half the original size but it still has a wide range of programs for child care health care climate. House Democrats added four weeks of paid family leave but that is something West Virginia Democratic Senator Joe Manchin opposes and it is likely to be stripped out. They also added immigration protections work permits to allow those who are in the country now - who have been in the country now since 2011 to stay and not be deported but those could also be stripped out. So even if the House does pass it the Senate's going to change it. And that means the House will have to vote again. So it could be more weeks of wrangling between Democrats in the House and the Senate before something goes to Biden for him to sign into law.  NPR's Deirdre Walsh thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  And for more policy and political maneuvering check out the NPR Politics Podcast wherever you find your podcasts.  Testimony's begun on the Georgia murder trial of three white men charged with killing Ahmaud Arbery. Here's the 25-year-old Black man who was shot to death last year. As he ran through a neighborhood the defendants pursued him in pickup trucks.  The racially charged trial has grabbed the nation's attention as a test case for racial justice. NPR's Debbie Elliott has been covering the trial in Brunswick and joins us now. Good morning Debbie.  Good morning.  So can we start here with how prosecutors laid out this case? What have they been saying?  During her opening statement Friday prosecutor Linda Dunikoski said Arbery was just jogging through a neighborhood. It was about two miles from his house when these three white strangers made the assumption that he must have done something wrong. So they grabbed their guns got in their pickup trucks and went in pursuit. Now key to the state's case against Travis and Greg McMichael and William Roddie Bryan is graphic cellphone video recorded by Bryan that shows the end of the chase. Arbery is cornered and then Travis McMichael shoots him in a struggle. She played the video for the jury. Arbery's mother Wanda Cooper Jones wept as she watched it in the courtroom. Later outside the courthouse on a blustery day she said that this was the first time she would seen the images that had galvanized so many to demand justice for Ahmaud.   I avoided the video for the last 18 months. And I thought it was time to get familiar with what happened Ahmaud in the last minutes of his life. So I am glad I was able to stay strong and stay in there.  Other family members were in the overflow courtroom where I was. And they had a really rough time seeing that video and some of the other evidence that is going to be part of the trial.  Well that brings us to the defense. How did they begin to lay out their case? And in particular how are they explaining what jurors see on that video?  Right. That is their biggest obstacle. They paint a portrait of a neighborhood on edge concerned about break-ins. They portray Arbery as a scary mystery an intruder who had been seen several times at night at a new-home construction site quote plundering around. Travis McMichael's attorney says he acted in self-defense after a legal attempt at a citizen's arrest gone wrong when he used a shotgun to kill Arbery. Franklin Hogue is Greg McMichael's lawyer. He described how things escalated after Arbery rejected the McMichaels' call for him to stop and started to fight back when Travis approached him with the shotgun.   Greg has turned as Ahmaud Arbery is running past the truck. And he sees him turn towards his only son. He is now in abject fear that he is about to witness his only son possibly be shot and killed in front of his very eyes.  So clearly two very different versions emerging about why Ahmaud Arbery was killed.  Well now testimony started late on Friday after 11 days of jury selection. And that is a process that resulted in a nearly all-white jury. What did the jury hear?  The first witness for the state was Glynn County Police Officer William Duggan. He was one of the first to respond to the scene. Prosecutor Dunikoski played his body cam video that shows him approaching Travis McMichael as Arbery's body lay in the street.   And what did that man covered in blood seated over there say to you when you asked him are you OK?  He - it was a quick reply of basically no I am not OK. I just effing killed somebody.  So as you can hear there a dramatic start - testimony is set to resume Monday morning.  NPR's Debbie Elliott - thank you so much.  You are welcome.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday November 6 2021. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Danielle Kurtzleben. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter.  And for more news and interviews features books music drama film...  .  ...You can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings - find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  