 The 2016 election exposed a deep divide in the country as we have been talking about over race ethnicity gender economic opportunity demography. Hollywood is often seen as a bastion of liberal elites and yet it makes the shows and films that are meant to appeal to the whole country. We talked with Kenya Barris a few days ago the creator of the network sitcom Black-ish about the conversations he and his staff had in the wake of last week's election. He encouraged his employees to keep an open mind.  We cannot make things worse you know? I think the whole - the way that this happened in the first place is because we have not been open. I just saw an article about the smugness of liberality in this country. And I think that that sort of turned a lot of people off - is that we felt like this was half the country literally split down the middle felt a different way. And we - you know on the left a lot of us felt like oh well they are uneducated and they are being conned or they do not really understand the issues and this - and that is - there is a smugness to that that sort of led to exactly why people feel the way they feel.  You acknowledge that then. I mean that especially gets labeled...  One hundred...  ...On Hollywood in particular.  One hundred percent. You know and if I am just going to be you know candid I feel like white people are finally feeling what black people have been feeling all the - all along you know what I am saying? Welcome to my America.  did not go your way and now you are pissed you know what I am saying? Like I am pissed too. I have been dealing with my kids crying my wife crying. I am beyond upset. But you know what? I am - I feel like the thing that - I was like this is the time when maybe instead of using this as a situation in which we you know cower and pout and have protests saying not my president for two years maybe this is the time since finally we have a sort of unified notion that together we are not black we are not white we are not Latino we are not Asian. We are really Americans who we feel like got excuse my language  together. We can use that in a good way to sort of erase a little bit of the sort of racial dynamics that have been between us and say let us unify along this and actually do something to rise.  Let me ask you then - in your corner of the world as an artist as a creator as the creator of this show about upper-middle-class black Americans living their life what is your role in bridging this divide that has been exposed in a bigger way? You say yeah...  I think...  ...It is the reality all the time but now it has been exposed to a larger degree how this country breaks down along racial lines.  I have been doing some panels and things. And in those panels the thing that I have really been stressing is send your kids to school where there are Asians and Latinos and blacks and whites and poor and rich because that is how people are able to actually grow in a world where they do not feel like the people that they are talking about are people that they do not really ever have any honest version of who that person is. I think Donald Trump does not really know the people that he is talking about. They are just ideas to him. And I think my - you know the thing that I hope in our show that it does is that it opens up the real conversations with people and lets people see our family as a real family. Not just as images or examples or ideas or things like that but as real people. Even though they are on television they can see themselves within that family and really have conversations that they may have been afraid or not wanted to have in public before.  So how do you get out of the echo chamber that you admit to some degree you are in talking about the smugness of liberal elites and the need to kind of get out into the world and get in touch with people who do not think like you?  From Tuesday night to Wednesday morning I think my show changed. I think that you know all of us came in here today and we felt like you know we are in third season you know we have had some great episodes you know that I really was proud of. You know we did a gun episode and hope and we did a voting episode. But this third season we did not want to become just a soapbox. So we sort of calmed down and we were like you know what? We have to talk about things that people might not want to talk about openly. But we have to dig in deeper and stay later and have more real conversations and argue amongst ourselves more and really bring our emotions to the surface and really say things that people want to hear - have said. We have to do that more. We have a responsibility. It is not just TV for us anymore.  Do you feel any kind of new perhaps uncomfortable sense of responsibility to reach out to the half of America who voted for Donald Trump and get them - make them feel welcome in your show?  One hundred percent. I am doing another pilot about a black Democratic pundit who is married to a white Republican pundit. And the purpose of me wanting to do that show and ABC sort of supported me in the way they did is because I feel like you know the political system is like an old married couple. And what is happened is the right is so dug into - on their side and the left is so dug in on their side that if either side concedes anything to the other they feel like they are not being true to their side. And so they are not talking. No one - they are not communicating. So I want to do a show about two people who by walking down the aisle across the aisle - and I do feel like it is - you know I have been on my you know writers and we have been having back-and-forths because it is so quick for us to be like they are crazy. They are nuts. And I am like no they are - half the country is not crazy. There may be crazies out there but it is condescending for us to say they are nuts and they are crazy and they are - does not open the conversation does not make us a country more united by just saying that everything that they possibly feel is wrong. It is not. They just feel differently. And we need to sort of open our conversation up to them to understand what they are feeling and so that maybe they will open theirself  up to us to understand what we are feeling 'ecause ultimately the right place of most arguments is the middle. Ultimately we all want our kids to be OK you know? And I feel like there is a conversation that we can all have together.  Kenya Barris is the creator writer and producer of the ABC show Black-ish. Kenya thanks for talking with us.  Thank you Rachel. I appreciate it. 