 It was 50 years ago that the movie Dr. No premiered and turned a literary figure James Bond into a cultural icon. Today the new Bond movie comes out. Skyfall finds Daniel Craig once again in the secret agent's impeccably tailored suit. This time he is battling bad guys and his own mortality.   Skyfall is directed by a veteran of British theater albeit a young one. Sam Mendes was a boy wonder of that scene in the late '80s directing Judi Dench in The Cherry Orchard when he was just 24. His first film won him a Best Director Oscar for American Beauty and it was on his second movie Road to Perdition that Sam Mendes met Daniel Craig. They would meet up again just a few years later at a party and start discussing James Bond.  We would both had a couple of drinks and I asked Daniel you know when he was doing the new Bond movie. And he said I do not know. And I said and who is going to direct it? And he said I do not know. Why do not you do it? And I can honestly say that I had not any particular agenda in asking him. I was just making small talk literally. But it never occurred to me until he said it. I think Daniel sobered up the next day realized that he would offered me the job and it was not really his position to do that. So he called the producers and two weeks later I met them. And they were very open. It was very clear from the beginning what they wanted was not a Bond movie but my Bond movie.  I wonder though given the weight of this character this franchise what trepidations did you have?  Well the main trepidation was that I would not be able to make a movie that was personal to me in some way. And then I had to make a decision of whether to go back and look at all the Bond movies or to sort of not look at them - to remember the ones that I remembered and forget the others and maybe go back to the books which I did. And I chose the latter course which was to not think about it too much as a Bond movie but as a movie. And there was something else as well which was I wanted to kind of get back in touch with my 12-year-old self that had sat down and watched Live and Let Die with Roger Moore in whenever it was the mid-'70s which was my first Bond experience and remember some of that excitement.  Well you know I gather one other connection that you had with Daniel Craig was that you both had the same first Bond movie experience.  Mm-hmm. Yes. It was a very big moment in both our lives I think. I mean there is a great - with the significant risk of sounding a bit pretentious - there is a great Camus quote in which he says something like I may paraphrase but A man's work is nothing more or less than the slow trek to rediscover through the detours of art those two or three great and simple images in the presence of which his heart first opened. You know I think that is true - a lot of people - is that you are sort of changed by those two or three what Camus calls great and simple images. And of course those days prehistoric times before DVD and video and access to these movies at the touch of a button the previous Bond movies were aired at Christmas traditionally on the BBC. And they were freighted with significance and they were big events in family life. And I still have memories of that.  Let us talk about your Bond and play a scene from the movie. James Bond is being put through several tests - physical and mental - to see if he is still fit for the job. A psychiatrist gives Bond a word and asks him to respond with the first word that comes to mind.   Well not giving anything away there. That of course Skyfall is the title of the movie and we will not give anything away on that. But I think what this scene suggests is how much darker James Bond is as portrayed by Daniel Craig. How do you see the evolution of this character?  Well we did not really create Bond as a dark character. One of the things I love about the creation of Bond by Fleming is that there is a sort of cruel wit. And particularly in the last trilogy of novels the character is suffering from a kind of mixture of boredom cynicism self-loathing. I mean he is very very dark. The issue became as they moved towards I think the more difficult novels they started abandoning some of the dark stuff because they thought it was not commercial. And Bond became a much lighter character. So I think this idea that somehow we have created a dark and complex Bond is - I would love to feel that that was true but I do not think it is. I think it is always been there. You just need to dig a little under the surface.  Well in the midst of all of this there is also a bit of fun with some icons of the Bond movies. You even bring back the famous Bond sports car the Aston Martin DB5. It has its ejector seat. It functions as a kind of time machine but sort of delightful.   I mean - yeah.  Yeah. That is a very good way of looking at it. It does. Yes. I mean part of the fun of doing a Bond movie is being able to play on the audience's prior knowledge of all sorts of things. And not only large-ticket items like for example the Aston Martin DB5 which I was very keen to get into the movie because it is something that as a child was my way in and I loved it. You know and I had the model of it and all that sort of stuff.  You had the little car?  I did. I had the Dinky Toy version I believe it was called. Anyway but not just those things but also lines echoes musical quotes. That is the fun of it.  The child today might be much more likely to covet a superhero action figure than say when you were a boy and you had the little Bond car with the ejector seat. How does James Bond stay relevant with younger audiences who will not have a nostalgia or a connection to the history of the character?  I think that it is important that you make him somebody that you do not assume the audience already knows. In that regard dealing with an iconic character like this is not so far away where I originally came from from theater. You know when you are doing a production of Richard III or The Cherry Orchard you cannot be unaware of other productions of the play that have existed. But it does not stop you rediscovering it and insisting that the audience goes on the journey as if for the first time each time.   Well thank you very much.  A great pleasure. Thank you.  Sam Mendes who directed the new Bond film Skyfall. This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Rene Montagne.  And I am Steve Inskeep. 