 What would you give to watch somebody else play what is arguably the world's worst video game for nearly a week? Turns out people have given millions. Reporter Ted Robbins tells us about a fundraiser called Desert Bus for Hope.  Kathleen de Vere sits in a La-Z-Boy in a room in Victoria British Columbia behind the virtual wheel of the video game Desert Bus. Playing the game she says is awful.  You are driving down a long featureless stretch of highway. Occasionally you pass a bus stop. There is no one there. Occasionally you check your rearview mirror. There is no one there.  Yet she drives ever onward between Tucson and Las Vegas in real time. It takes eight hours to earn one point unless you crash then you have to start over. The desert bus veers to the right requiring constant correction and you cannot pause the game.  So you stay in the left-hand lane until the torment ends and then you do it again.  This rotten game was created in the mid-'90s by the magicians Penn and Teller as a satire on video games. Eight years ago members of LoadingReadyRun an online comedy group in British Columbia discovered it. They thought a live online marathon Desert Bus session would be fun and could raise money for Child's Play a charity supporting hospitals and domestic abuse shelters. Thus was born Desert Bus for Hope the world's dullest telethon.  The first year we raised 22000 and then we were sort of like well I guess we are doing this every year.  That is Graham Stark Kathleen de Vere's co-pilot for this shift. Since that first year Desert Bus for Hope has grown to more than 40 volunteers working out of a conference room in Victoria. Stark says they have thousands of viewers watching drivers play the game online. The problem is keeping those viewers interested in the world's dullest game.  The way I word it is we are the viewers' monkeys. Like we do whatever.  They dance they auction off artwork gaming paraphernalia boxes of pastries. They do karaoke the songs from Beauty And The Beast.   The game Desert Bus sometimes seems like an afterthought which may be why gamer Kathleen de Vere crashed twice during her 12-hour shift.  Yeah well there are some - I may have been distracted.  Seems to be working anyway. This week Desert Bus for Hope passed the 2 million-mark in overall donations.   For NPR News I am Ted Robbins. 