 Many of us have celebrated or will celebrate Thanksgiving at school like this.  You make the Native American headdress and you make a medallion with your Native American name on it and put beads on your shirt and make all those fun things - and the turkey activities. And then you would have a day where you dressed as pilgrims and Native Americans.  Michelle Portera of Mississippi has been teaching for 18 years. She loved planning those crafts for her first-grade students. But there was a nagging feeling.  I did not feel like we were teaching truth. If you really dig into the history we know that Thanksgiving was not happy pilgrims and Indians sitting down one day to feast and that was that. I mean there were so much more heavier things that surrounded it. It did not feel right anymore.  For many Native Americans Thanksgiving can be fraught. Some prefer to observe a day of mourning. Lessons in school that gloss over the history can perpetuate inaccuracies and stereotypes. Andrea Riley-Mukavetz is a college professor who covers Thanksgiving and Native American history in her classes. She is also Ojibwe and a mom of two young kids so she is thought a lot about how children learn about Thanksgiving.  I also think about how we can be honest with our young people at a very early age. I do not think it is appropriate to scare our young people talking about genocide and things like that.  But Riley-Mukavetz says oftentimes teachers lack the resources to navigate this tricky subject. In her younger child's classroom the history is not being taught at all in favor of lessons about kindness and gratitude.  It is about teaching people to be nice but that is still not what happened. You know that moment of giving thanks between the Wampanoag and the pilgrims or the Puritans - right? - that was a moment of mutually beneficial peace. And then right after that more horror happened.  She says there are ways to teach Thanksgiving appropriately. First be honest and direct.  You know here is what happened. This was deliberate and intentional and it was used to take claim of the land. But also give examples of how Tribal Nations people are surviving and engaged in cultural continuance right now. It could also be a story about learning how to value the land. Tribal Nations people were celebrating Thanksgiving far before the settlers because it was harvest time.  My name is Molly Till and I live in Colorado Springs Colo. And I teach kindergarten.  Till has been teaching for 13 years and knows she is taught a lot of mistruths by only giving a cursory history lesson the week before the holiday. After she started working with a Native American colleague Till took her suggestion to expand the curriculum.  Now I spend the whole month of November talking about the different Native American groups. I make it a point to tell them and show them books and videos that are current and have Native American representation so they do not think they were just in history. And then the week before Thanksgiving we talk about how the colonists came over. And I call them colonists instead of pilgrims.  Till says online resources including one through the Smithsonian have helped her dispel a lot of the common myths about Thanksgiving.  The big one that kids do not - it kind of shocks them is that the Native Americans were not invited. The colonists did not go out and say hey you helped us plant corn and survive a year. Come - I mean that is the story I heard - that they were like Squanto you are so great. Come on over and have Thanksgiving with us. And that is not at all how it happened.  Molly Till says the great thing about teaching young kids is that they are open-minded and willing to absorb the information. Andrea Riley-Mukavetz agrees. She says kids can handle a lot more than we give them credit for.  I think it is OK for us to have uncomfortable conversations that will put us in a place where we can both grow and reflect on our history and try to find ways to learn from the mistakes to move on and do better.  And Riley-Mukavetz has these book recommendations for anyone who is interested in tackling Native American history with kids - Jingle Dancer by Cynthia Smith When We Were Alone by David Robertson and The Lesser Blessed by Richard Van Camp.  