 And let us turn to another state where there is a closely held Senate race that is the state of New Hampshire. Josh Rogers from New Hampshire Public Radio joins us on the line from Manchester. Josh good morning.  Good morning David.  So the Senate race there it is between the incumbent  Democrat Jeanne Shaheen her challenger Scott Brown the Republican who you know our listeners might know well because not too long ago he was a senator from neighboring Massachusetts. Set up this race for us.  Well it is been a race where Scott Brown at every turn has tried to nationalize it and make it about Senator Shaheen's fealty to President Obama. She is voted with them pretty much down the line and Jeanne Shaheen in turn has cast Scott Brown as someone who does not know New Hampshire serves himself and his out-of-state backers. And so it is a question of who is going to get out their vote at this point.  And is that sort of what you are hearing from voters Josh I mean sort of struggling with whether they want a candidate who is talking about the state of New Hampshire versus a candidate who is trying to nationalize this and say vote for me it is a vote against the president and sort of his agenda?  Well it is sort of a mixed-bag. You know Jeanne Shaheen before she served her first term in the U.S. Senate was governor for three terms and a state Senator before that. So she is very well-known and fairly popular according to the polls. And so there are some who say you know she is doing an all right job. I may not be happy of what is going on in Washington but I am comfortable with her. There are also those who feel that all the Democrats need to go and they want to hold President Obama accountable to the extent that they can. I talked to one person who describes herself as a Reagan Democrat who said she is voting for Scott Brown because she is lost faith in Democrats from the president on down. And I also spoke to a woman who said she was voting for Jeanne Shaheen because she is more comfortable with her than Scott Brown who she says is out for himself but was also going to vote for a Republican in a Congressional seat. So it is hard to tell at this point.  And we have a few seconds left. I just wonder you are outside a polling station - busy so far?  Reasonably busy not swarming as in a presidential year but valid turnout for a midterm. Our secretary of state is predicting 53 percent of people will cast ballots today. That would be the highest-ever rate for participation for a midterm election so it should be busy.  All right Josh Rogers from New Hampshire Public Radio outside a polling station in the city of Manchester New Hampshire big Senate race there. Josh thanks a lot.  You are welcome David. 