 To understand a country you really need to listen to people. Over the next three days we are going to do just that by traveling through the heart of Pakistan on a train with our correspondent Phil Reeves. Our journey begins in the north in the city of Rawalpindi.  This is Pakistan's most magical hour. This is my absolute favorite time of day in South Asia - early in the morning. The sky is pale blue. People are wandering around wrapped in big woolen shawls against the chill. The sun has recently risen and is a big orange coin low in the sky casting this lovely apricot-colored light. I am here to catch a train that will take me 1000 miles south. We will travel down the middle of Pakistan to its largest city Karachi on the shores of the Arabian Sea.   My fellow passengers prepare for the journey with tea and cakes.   Our train pulls in. It is green and cream-colored and somewhat battered-looking.   And we are off. Doors are still open. And during this journey we are going to ask people where they are going and talk to them about that but I do not just mean where they are going today. I mean where they are going at this point in history in this part of the world because there is no better place to meet people than on a train.  Farooq Ansari is my name. I am working in a private pharmaceutical company. I am looking after for marketing and sales department of pharmaceutical products.  Farooq Ansari is on his way to give a pep talk to a sales team in the city of Multan about halfway along our journey. Business is pretty good these days he says. Some medicines are selling alarmingly well.  We have medicines for anxiety. We have medicine for depression. There is a huge growth in the sales of this sort of medicine. As far as commercial interest is concerned we are happy that we are selling our medicine. But as a national this also creates an anxiety for me that what we are doing.  You are anxious about the amount of anxiety medicine that is being sold because people are anxious about the country.  Yes.  There is much to be anxious about. Every other week seems to bring a sectarian massacre or a militant bombing. Yet people here often tell me what they really worry about is how to secure a toehold in a society where so much depends on who you are who you know or who you pay.   Sit down for a minute with Aftab Jamil. He is 24 and he is heading home.  My mom will cook my favorite dishes. It is like rice meats et cetera that I like.  So you will be treated like a hero when you arrive?  Yeah yeah of course.  Jamil will get a hero's welcome because he is just landed his first job. He is a civil engineer. He says finding work was not easy without connections.  Political involvement is too much in this field. So it is highly difficult to be in on merit.  To be there on merit?  Yeah.  How many different jobs have you applied for?  I have been applying at roadways highways motorways airports buildings department irrigation department and did not get a job.  How many applications - 10 15?  No it is a thousand.  You have made thousands of applications?  Yeah.  Jamil's father could not pull any strings to help him. He is a blacksmith. Jamil says he heard from a friend about a vacancy on a highway construction project. And when he was hired it felt like winning the lottery. When you are young and single and get your first pay packet it is party time right? Not for Jamil. He earns the equivalent of 150 a month. He says he must send every dime home to help pay for his sisters' weddings except for 5 which he keeps as fun money. We chat and look out of the window at a countryside still governed by tradition. There is sugar cane. There are mango groves. There are stagnant pongs. There are donkeys and children and goats and sheep and small mud villages half mud half brick and palm trees and paddy fields and lots of little pathways little mud paths running across the landscape which is mostly flat. Roughly 200 million people live out in that landscape. More than half are 25 or under. If they cannot find a toehold in society they could easily fall prey to Islamist extremists. Militant groups are very active here. Khawar Ajaz sees that firsthand.  Danger - very dangerous. . Very dangerous.  Ajaz is a cop. He started out two years ago as a constable. He is just been promoted so he is on his way to a training course. Ajaz is 25. His parents died when he was in his teens. He says he has no political connections or money and that means he knows precisely how high his career will take him.   I can go up to ASI assistant sub-inspector. I am a poor man. You have to grease the palms of someone if you want to go beyond that.  Ajaz says an assistant sub-inspector in the police is paid 400 a month. And you will be happy with that?  Sir very happy sir.  That seems strange to me. Why not push against that ceiling? Yet what matters to Ajaz is that his job is permanent. You feel safe in this job?  My - my kitchen is safe .  Ajaz is thinking about his sons. Being a policeman gives him some social clout. He believes that will eventually make it easier for his boys to find work and secure that precious toehold.   This will be a plus point for them because of my job as a policeman.  To get ahead in Pakistan you have to think ahead. Farooq Ansari from the pharmaceutical company is twice Ajaz's age but he has teenage kids and knows that young people are under a lot of pressure.  They are worried about their country. In this sort of condition in this sort of political culture they are feeling that we are going towards destruction.  We arrive in Multan. Ansari steps off our train into a world that seems to need his anxiety meds. Philip Reeves NPR News. 