  It is time to return to the world of Latin alternative music with NPR's Felix Contreras and Jasmine Garsd of NPR's online music show Alt.Latino. Hey guys.  Hi.  Good morning.  OK so you two feature the best new tracks coming out of the Latin Alternative music scene on your podcast. But today we are talking about a few tunes that you could not quite fit into the show but you think it is still music that we should definitely get to know. So where do you want to start today?  Let us go a little rootsy.  OK I dig it.  I...  Get it dig it?  Rootsy...   Well what I dug up was...   Oh nice.  What I dug up was a track from an album called Diablos del Ritmo The Colombian Melting Pot from 1960-1985. And this cut is called Calambre. The group is called Conjunto Barbacoa. And it is a mixture of African music and Colombian music - but with a twist that I will tell you about in a second.   Colombia has a lot of African influences going back to the slave trade. And what this album is it is contemporary African music influencing that African-influenced music. So there is a influence on top of an influence.   And what you are hearing on this track - the sinewy guitar part reflects back on Afro-beat that was popular throughout different parts of Africa in the '70s.  I love that it is called Calambre which means like a foot cramp like when your foot falls asleep.   Oh yeah?  Yeah 'ecause it is very thick and pulsating but it also makes me think of the way like I jump around...   ...to get rid of my foot falling asleep.   Foot cramps.  Funny.  OK. So Jasmine you brought an older track with you - right - which has kind of a new video out?  Yes. I brought a track by one of my favorite current Latin alternative bands which is Calle 13 in Puerto Rico. This is the song La Bala. It is from their latest album Entren Los Que Quieran which won them nine Latin Grammys. But they have a new video which they did with the support of is very beautiful. And I will tell a little bit about it after we hear some of the song.  OK let us listen.   So this is a video in which they are talking about gun violence. And the video - there is no blood there is no gore. It is just civilians from all over the world being gunned down by invisible bullets.  Oh my.  And it just talks about how every day there is this rampant violence that can really affect anyone.   Switching gears a little bit - Felix this next artist I understand won her first Latin Grammy - which is something that you guys are happy about?  Very happy. We are big fans of Carla Morrison. Recently she was nominated for four Latin Grammys including Album of the Year and Song of the Year as well as Alternative Album and Alternative Song of the Year. Now she won the Alternative categories. But it is a big deal that she was nominated within the major categories 'ecause it shines a light on an independent artist an independent label getting some mainstream recognition. She re-recorded her song Dejenme Llorar which won for Song of Year with Nina Diaz - from another group that we really like a lot called Girl in a Coma.   It has like such a Southwestern twang now.  Yeah 'ecause Girl in a Coma is from San Antonio.  Ah.  And to hear them together on this song when she sings probably at least an octave maybe two octaves lower than Carla Morrison just brings a whole different feel to it. I am such a fan.   OK Jas the next band you brought has an unusual name that I will proceed to butcher but let us try it - Illya Kuryaki and the Valderramas.  Very - yes. Very good.  Ta-dah you made it.  Yay!   So the name of the band - which is goofy  it comes from an old TV show that I have never seen.  Yeah it was a 1960s TV show starred Robert Vaughn. He was The Man from U.N.C.L.E. But his sidekick his Russian sidekick was Illya Kuryakin. Why they chose that name - no idea.   And it is a combination of that and Colombian soccer star - and frankly the best hair in soccer...  Ooh...   ...Carlos Valderramas. They have a strange status in Latin alternative because they are very loved in like the underground scene. But I still - I have always felt like this band did not get the props they were due. Like they should have been a lot bigger. They have worked with Bootsy Collins. They are very respected. So they got back together last year and they released this album called Chances. I love the album.   I love this song. My roommates are fed up of me dancing in my room. This is my favorite song off the album - Helicopteros.   I can see Jasmine doing some head-banging to this.   What strikes me about this band is that the way they so accurately nail that '70s funk sound.  Yeah.  This sounds so familiar to me. But it still sounds fresh and new at the same time.  Jasmine Garsd and Felix Contreras - they host NPR's Alt.Latino. Thanks you guys.  Always so much fun to be here.  Thank you.   And you can find Felix and Jasmine's picks on our website nprmusic.org. This is PR News. I am Rachel Martin.  