 There have been multiple officials who have testified behind closed doors in the impeachment inquiry. And a lot of what they have said confirms that the president did indeed withhold military aid from Ukraine in exchange for an investigation into his rival Joe Biden and his son. With more subpoenas and testimonies expected there is much left to uncover. Our own Mara Liasson is here with us and she is the national political correspondent. And she is going to talk about what is happening. Hi Mara.  Hi Lulu.  All right. What is coming this week? What can we expect?  We know that the House has asked to hear tomorrow from John Eisenberg who is the National Security Council top lawyer. He is the one who is been described in other testimony as being the person who decided to put the rough transcript of the call with the president and the president of Ukraine into a special restricted access computer system called NICE. That stands for NSC Intelligence Collaboration Environment. Democrats say that is...  Does not seem like the best word but yes.   Democrats say that is the sign of a cover-up. Republicans say he was just trying to prevent leaks. We do not know if Eisenberg will appear. We do know that the House has asked to hear from national - former national security adviser John Bolton on Thursday. Bolton has yet to receive a subpoena but when he does he will probably join the suit filed by his deputy Charles Kupperman. And they say they will not appear before the House unless a court tells them to because the White House has directed them not to testify.  OK. The impeachment inquiry is not the only big political story right now. The Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren finally came out with a plan for how to finance her Medicare for All plan without raising taxes she says for the middle class. Tell us about it.  Well that is right. She is been pressed on this for weeks and weeks. Bernie Sanders who has a similar plan says yes taxes would have to go up for everyone including the middle class. But Warren says she has another way to not directly tax middle-class taxpayers.  All right. So no middle-class tax hike apparently. Does that mean Medicare for All will be an easy sell in a general election?  No it does not. There are a lot of Democrats who are really worried that while Elizabeth Warren is clearly running a very skillful Democratic primary campaign she is adopting proposals that will be extremely unpopular in a general election in battleground states like Michigan Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. Even in Ohio in a poll of Democrats only taken by The New York Times and Siena College voters preferred by a 14-point margin to build on Obamacare and add a public option - in other words a voluntary Medicare buy-in. They preferred that over Warren's mandatory Medicare for All plan where private insurance is abolished. And Democrats worry that when you dig into the details of Warren's pay-fors there are a lot of taxes. Taxes go up on employers. That wealth tax on billionaires goes up from 3 to 6. And even at - the Urban Institute a liberal think tank says that Warren has vastly underestimated the cost of this. She says it will be 20 trillion over a decade. They say it is actually 34 trillion.  Yeah. And speaking of how Democrats are seeing this Nancy Pelosi who is the most powerful Democrat in Washington made her feelings about Medicare for All clear here on Bloomberg TV. Let us listen.   I am not a big fan of Medicare for All. I mean I welcome the debate. I think that we should have health care for all. Myself I think remember November. This is a time when we have to win the Electoral College.  She is clearly linking this with winning the election.  Yes and she knows how to count votes. She said as a left-wing San Francisco liberal I can say to these people what are you thinking?  That is NPR's national political correspondent Mara Liasson. Thanks Mara.  Thank you. 