 Right now we have two radically different views on health care. The debate in Congress will likely range somewhere between these views in the coming weeks. The first comes from President Obama. He praised the House over the weekend for passing a bill that would extend coverage to millions of Americans.  The Affordable Health Care For America Act is a piece of legislation that will provide stability and security for Americans who have insurance quality affordable options for those who do not and bring down the cost of health care for families businesses and our government while strengthening the financial health of Medicare. It is legislation that is fully paid for and it will reduce our long-term federal deficit.  So that is one view. Now the bill moves on to the Senate where the other view is represented by Republican Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina.  The House bill is dead on arrival in the Senate. Just look at how it passed. It passed 220 to 215.  Lindsey Graham spoke on CBS. We are going to talk about these differing views and more starting with NPR health policy correspondent Julie Rovner who is with us once again. Hi Julie.  Good morning.  What is in the bill the House passed?  Finally as the president said the bill would pay for itself largely through reductions in Medicare spending and a new tax on high-income earners generally those earning over a half a million dollars.  So it promises more to a lot of people. It expects more of a lot of people including companies the government individuals and so forth. But there is the question of whether it could have squeezed some more money out of the health system and I understand that is one of the reasons that Republicans so strongly objected here.  That is right and some Democrats. There were many Democrats who did not vote for the bill too. Now Republicans of course tried to offer their own alternative. It included things that we have seen many times before limits on medical malpractice lawsuits letting people buy insurance across state lines. The Congressional Budget Office though said that they would only cover about three million people who did not have insurance as opposed to the 36 million people in the Democrats' bill. The Republican alternative went down fairly handily.  Now there are some other issues that were brought up here. Before the House bill was passed late Saturday night there was a fight over abortion. What happened?  So there are abortion rights supporters that are furious about this amendment and that they were allowed to offer it.  NPR's Cokie Roberts joins us for analysis as she does every Monday morning. Cokie Good morning.  Hi Steve Hi Julie.  What is likely to happen with this abortion dispute now?  But the pro-choice Democrats who voted for the bill are holding their noses hoping the anti-abortion language might go away in the Senate. I think they have a slim reed to lean on. I cannot imagine the end though that they do not eventually go ahead and vote for a health care coverage bill.  So were the abortion restrictions basically the price for some essential support here then? Is that a fair way to think of it?  Of course exactly. I mean the speaker was very clear on that. She could not pass the bill without the votes of the Democrats who were brought on board with the anti-abortion language.  Julie Rovner is still listening to us. And Julie I would like to know of once they get out of the specific tactical situation if there could actually be other changes on abortion in the coming months.  But I think Cokie's right. You would certainly expect in the Senate where there is probably less support for abortion rights than there is in the House I would expect that the Senate would probably adopt this amendment too now that the House has.  Julie thanks very much. That is...  You are very welcome.  ...that is NPR's Julie Rovner. Cokie Roberts is still with us because I want to ask about another part of this. There was a lot of talk after Republicans won a couple of governor's races on Tuesday that this would send a message in Congress that it would or should - Republicans were hoping - affect the health care debate in some way. Did you see any sense of that or any sign of that as the House prepared to vote on Saturday?  The White House is constantly making the case that they are better off being bold. But of course House members are nervous. Most Americans are happy with their health care. Change could disrupt them rather than help them. And the Senate is even more nervous as you just heard from Julie you know a higher percentage of senators represent heterogeneous constituencies and it is a problem to them.  Very briefly a lot of these lawmakers regardless of the party must be looking at the economic numbers and wondering what that means for them.  And that is where Tuesday's election really has had an effect because people are so worried about the economy and the president's people say every day he is saying give me ideas give me ideas tell me how I can help to stimulate the economy. They do not want to bandy this about too much until they get health care done.  Thanks very much. That is NPR News analyst Cokie Roberts who joins us every Monday morning.   You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 