 President-elect Donald Trump sought to rehabilitate his relationship with the press this week while also circumventing it. He met with network executives and The New York Times. But he also offered an update on his transition and a Thanksgiving greeting on YouTube. NPR's media correspondent David Folkenflik joins us from New York. David thanks for being with us.  Of course.  So Monday there was this meeting at Trump Tower Donald Trump and five top television network executives and anchorpeople. There were various reports but they did not wind up just shaking hands and making up did they?  No. I think what we saw over the course of the week are the two sides of the coin when it comes to Donald Trump. He has exceptionally thin skin and is not only willing to dish it out but sort of eager to do so. And also it serves to throw red meat to a core part of his constituency. After all he kept labeling the media part of the establishment that he wanted to tear down. And he did so with some intensity during the course of various rallies during the election season. The other side of the coin is that he desperately wants to be loved and embraced and applauded by the very same media. He wants to be celebrated.  Yeah.  He wants to appear on its front pages and he wants to be on its airwaves. So you know he is trying to reconcile these two parts of himself. And he does so by berating all these TV executives and then by taking their questions and trying to impress them with his knowledge of his policy inclinations.  In this day and age of social media platforms and YouTube does any famous person really need the mainstream press?  Each president has sought to find ways - talk radio local TV news you know new digital players then social media itself - to find ways to get around what George W. Bush used to call the filter of the national media and I think that is OK. You know there are various ways you communicate. You know one of the things that upset a lot of White House journalists during Obama's presidency is that he essentially had Pete Souza his White House photographer do a lot of photography that used to be captured by pool photographers for major media outlets. And they said well this is essentially a form of you know propaganda. A lot of the pictures were great but it is true - they were not framed to be unflattering. I will say that I think that what Trump suggests is something different. Trump tends to use the media when he is feeling well in terms of giving it access and shut it out when he feels some ways badly used or just given tough scrutiny. And one of the things that he does most well with social media is to change the subject. If you think about his tweeting last week about Hamilton and - the Broadway show at which Vice President-elect Pence was booed - what he really did among other things was he changed the subjects from tough scrutiny about whether he had - it seems very clearly - acknowledged violating tax laws about essentially self-enrichment from his foundation about whether his vast foreign investments essentially might violate a clause in the Constitution. You know that - there are some really important big-level issues that he is managed to distract a lot of attention from if not all of the press much of it and certainly much of the public by virtue of using these social media using these kind of twitch impulses to cloud the subject.  David I wonder if you have any insight into this. Kellyanne Conway who managed Donald Trump's campaign sent a tweet this week expressing some doubts that she professed that she had heard from people who did not want Mitt Romney to be nominated as Mr. Trump's secretary of state. Cannot she walk into the office and say that to him?  Well let us not forget that Donald Trump really is a creature of the media. So this may in some ways be the most effective way for them to reach him is to - is through the in some ways the reinforcement or the seal of approval given by it showing up on MSNBC or CNN or Fox. You know somebody saying something - a message they want to get to him - may carry more of an imprimatur if it is coming through the voice of one of the anchors that he is watched over the years. You know you would think that his own advisers are the ones that he would turn to most. But if you also think of some of the advisers he is had in recent months Kellyanne Conway a political figure - but she was you know a pollster and really a spokeswoman in many ways. She is kind of figure of the media. And Steve Bannon came from Breitbart News. Roger Ailes advised him for several months. He was the former founding chairman of Fox News. These are people who are media figures one way or another. And that is really the - those are the waters that Donald Trump swims in. And you can tell from his tweets that he is often responding minute by minute to what he sees online in major papers but particularly what he sees on TV. And I think they may have concluded that is the best way to reach him as some of these fights over who is going to join the Trump administration are played out.  NPR's David Folkenflik thanks so much.  You bet. 