 It was the longest stretch of silence from President Donald Trump since he took office.  Almost a week after Joe Biden became president-elect Trump returned to the public stage but not to concede.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   Speaking from the Rose Garden Trump acknowledged the growing crisis as the U.S. hits a record number of confirmed cases of the coronavirus.  He assured Americans the vaccine is on the horizon for almost everyone.   As soon as April the vaccine will be available to the entire general population with the exception of places like New York State.  Every place but New York - we will try to explain.  And the Million MAGA March comes to Washington D.C. The president said he might stop by and say hello. Will there be huge crowds of supporters? Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   The numbers of new confirmed daily coronavirus infections are staggering. It is hard to overstate how much the spread of the coronavirus has accelerated this past week.  This is how Dr. Preeti Malani at the University of Michigan sees the situation.  This is a really dangerous time as we are going into the holiday season. And people are tired. And it is not too late. We can still turn things around. But it is going to require a big effort.  Will Stone covers the pandemic for NPR and joins us now. Hi Will.  Hi.  Bad news - we know things have spiraled in the past few weeks. But give us a sense of the scale here.  Yeah. Even for those of us who watch these numbers daily it is been a shocking week. It took the U.S. a long time to reach 100000 cases in a single day. And that just happened last week. And now we are already averaging about 140000 cases a day. In the speed it is rising it does not seem like 200000 is that far off. And just to put that in perspective that is like everybody in Salt Lake City getting infected every day.  Wow.  Cases are close to - 80 have risen nationwide since the beginning of the month. And now the number of people in the hospital for COVID is close to 70000. And that is well above the peak in the spring and the summer.  So what is in the toolbox? I mean what can be done when things get as bad as they are right now? I mean is it going to take more than what we have heard all the time - the mask-wearing the social distancing?  If everyone did that it would still go a long way. Modelers at the University of Washington estimate mask use is close to 70. And if it bumped up to 95 that could save nearly 70000 lives by March. But remember there are still quite a few states without a universal mass mandate. And the reality is states may also need to shut down or at least put in place more restrictions.  I mean I am sure everyone hearing that - you know their heart sinks. I mean does it mean we are going to see full lockdowns like we did in the spring?  No one wants to see those sweeping shutdowns of the economy again with the impact on jobs on people's health. But states are hoping there is a middle ground. They are running out of options though. And New Mexico just did a stay-at-home order. Here's the governor Michelle Lujan Grisham pleading with people who might be infected to take it seriously.   You may not you shall not - do not go to work in an essential business. People are going to work. You are spreading this virus. And it is out of control.  And more states are moving in this direction. Oregon has a partial lockdown. And in the northeast parts of California restaurants and other businesses are closing.  So Will can that help bring the situation under control?  The people I have spoken to hope it will at least slow the spread to relieve the pressure on hospitals in the short term. But the fact is the U.S. does not have a coordinated national strategy. So states are really backed into a corner at this point. This is what Dr. Michael Mina at Harvard sees playing out as we head further into the winter.  We are going to see sputtering of shutdowns in the same way that we kind of saw only haphazard shutdowns in March April and May. And my concern is that this is going to lead to the worst of all options where we are going to have massive economic destruction and the virus is barely going to be dented at a national level.  Now Mina has advocated for a nationwide rapid testing program where people can easily check their status. That has not come to pass. And he says a national lockdown for four six weeks could help pump the brakes. But again the federal government needs to be involved to make it work. And right now hospitals are in crisis. And in many states they say they are nearing capacity.  That is reporter Will Stone. Thank you very much.  Thank you.   Ideally we will not go to a lockdown. I will not go - this administration will not be going to a lockdown. Hopefully the - whatever happens in the future who knows which administration will be? I guess time will tell.  That was President Trump yesterday evening in what were his first public remarks since his loss to former vice president now President-elect Joe Biden.  As you just heard Trump did not concede the election but he did give an update on his administration's efforts on the coronavirus vaccine.  Joining us now to discuss the president's comments is NPR White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe. Good morning.  Good morning.  This was President Trump's first public press conference since the election. What was his message?  He focused on Operation Warp Speed which is his administration's effort to push vaccine development. And he provided an optimistic timeline on when a coronavirus vaccine will be available to the public. He continued to say the surging numbers of infections are because of lots of testing which is not true. And he criticized New York Governor Andrew Cuomo who has expressed concern about the vaccine. And Trump said the vaccine will not be delivered to New York because of Cuomo's skepticism. Here's more from him.   He does not trust the fact that it is this White House this administration. So we will not be delivering it to New York until we have authorization to do so. And that pains me to say that. This is a very successful amazing vaccine at 90 and more. But - so the governor Governor Cuomo will have to let us know when he is ready for it. Otherwise we cannot be delivering it to a state that will not be giving it to its people immediately.  So we do not know how serious President Trump was about that or whether his administration will still be around when it comes to distributing the vaccine to New York. It is important to note the president did not take any questions and the White House staff began clapping as reporters shouted out questions about the results of the elections and whether he would concede. So even though he gave public remarks he still has not taken questions from the press.  So Trump spoke to the country a few days after the election. He made false claims about fraud. But since Joe Biden became president-elect we have been waiting to hear what Trump has to say specifically about the election. I mean was there any mention of it yesterday?  He did not talk about it except for that one clip that you played at the beginning where he kind of acknowledged a potential future administration. His campaign is continuing to challenge the results of the elections but its claims have not been successful in the courts. I have to point out once again that Biden is leading Trump in key states by thousands of votes and no recount or legal challenge is likely to change that. The Trump campaign strategy though is to fight or at least look like they are putting up a fight. Vice President Pence told a conservative group yesterday that they will continue the legal battle against the results of the presidential election. Pence said it is about protecting the integrity of the ballot. But it must be stressed once again that there is no evidence of widespread voter fraud or that ballots have been compromised.  And we should say our own reporting says Trump's legal avenues are closing. Courts in Pennsylvania and Michigan shot down the Trump challenges just recently. Let us turn to the president-elect. Biden received a COVID briefing from his own advisers. His advisers are saying his team is not getting any cooperation from the government right now. What did Biden have to say?  So just ahead of Trump's remarks Biden issued a statement. And he said it would be many months before most Americans get to take a vaccine despite efforts to develop and distribute the vaccine quickly. He basically said that the virus is not waiting around and he will not be president until January. So he called on the Trump administration to take action now to give more resources to hospitals and for more resources for testing and to provide clearer guidance. He said that this crisis demands a robust and immediate federal response which has been woefully lacking. Biden also you know renewed his call for Americans to wear masks to maintain social distancing wash your hands. He said he understands that it is not easy that people are tired. But he stressed that this will not go on forever and that the country can get through it together. But there has to be some shared responsibility and shared action.  That is NPR White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe. Thank you very much.  Thank you.   Supporters of President Trump are gathering in Washington D.C. today for an event they billed as the Million MAGA March.  White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany says the turnout will be quite large. But while the size of the crowd remains to be seen the nation's capital is bracing for unrest. Yesterday Trump signaled his approval of the rally in a tweet.  NPR's Hannah Allam joins us now. She is been covering the city's preparation and will be heading out to the rally today. Hannah thanks so much for being with us.  Hi. Good morning.  Do we know who is coming?  Well all sorts of groups have said they are coming. And they are all pretty much animated by their support for President Trump and the spaceless idea that the election was rigged or stolen. So yeah. You have got the Stop The Steal activists that is kind of the umbrella. And then there is a mix of conservative Republicans conspiracy theorists militia-style groups even some white nationalists. Basically we are expecting the same blend of Trump loyalists and far-right activists we have seen at lockdown protests over the summer. And indeed they are using many of those same connections and channels that they established over the summer to get people out this time.  And what kind of reception do you think they are likely to get in Washington D.C.?  Yeah. This is D.C. It is just not as easy for them to put on a big show here. It is overwhelmingly Democratic. It is diverse. You cannot openly carry guns. It is home to a big and vocal activist set on the left. And those activists have been out all summer. They are the ones behind the creation of Black Lives Matter Plaza in front of the White House the ones who were teargassed by police. And so on the left they are also organizing around today's event and calling on people to come out and counterprotest. And you know just a reminder we are in a pandemic. And so that is one of many wildcards when it comes to turnout today.  How do the organizers of this event see success? What is the goal?  It depends on the group. But broadly it seems to be a show of support for Trump a rejection of the actual election results. And there is a lot of other fringe and conspiracy stuff baked in. But again this is a well-oiled network by now. These same elements have come together like this for lockdown protest to quote fight antifa to imagine showdowns in various cities. And extremism analysts I have spoken with about the rally warned against getting too caught up in crowd sizes today because they are saying whatever the turnout they find it troubling that so many extremist and fringe groups are involved and are trying to find common cause. Brian Levin a hate and extremism researcher at Cal State San Bernardino told me think of the rally as only the public face of a deeper potentially dangerous rage over the election and other divisions in the country.  The thing that I think we have to do is to make sure that we are looking at a wide angle rather than a small one because irrespective of the crowd the fact that this is being organized shows that the hard hard right is angling for some kind of activity to show that they have some potency.  And so I mean again President Trump tweeted his support for this event which coming from the bully pulpit of the president is validation. And it seems to be another example of how the Trump era has opened up space for conspiracy theorists and extremists.  NPR's Hannah Allam will be covering the Million MAGA March later today. Thanks so much for being with me.  Thank you.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday November 14 2020. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. You can follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter.  We also think you will like NPR's afternoon podcast. It is called Consider This. It dives deep on one issue to help you make sense of the day.  On the latest episode of Consider This why a delayed presidential transition is dangerous for national security. Experts with firsthand experience weigh in. You can listen to that episode now.  And for more news interviews books and music you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings - find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  