 Now a story about diversity in America and law enforcement. Recently a young Somali-American blew himself up in Somalia. It was a suicide bombing. Authorities are still trying to identify the young man. They think he was from Minneapolis. Terrorists are recruiting young Somali-Americans in American cities including Minneapolis and Columbus Ohio. This morning NPR's Dina Temple-Raston reports on an effort in Columbus to recruit Somalis for the local police force.  In the courtyard at the Columbus Police Academy young cadets line up in two long rows.  Company attention. Parade right!  The assembly looks more like a group of kids than cops. One cadet runs out late and takes his place in line and an instructor shouts at him.  Are you kidding me? Twice in two minutes twice.  But for the city of Columbus Ohio this class of cadets represents a missed opportunity. You can see it just by looking down the line. They are all white and nearly all male. Columbus where more than 45000 Somalis live has no Somalis on its police force.  We have had a couple of Somali individuals actually pass our civil service examination.  That is Deputy Chief Jeffrey Blackwell of the Columbus Ohio Division of Police.  But to get to that final frontier or to actually see a Somali person walk across the stage at the Columbus Police Academy we have not had that success yet.  Somali communities in the U.S. tend to be poor and not really integrated into American society. And they follow events in Somalia quite closely. It is partly because of that that more than two dozen young Somali-Americans left the U.S. and joined an al-Qaida affiliated group called al-Shabab. While most of them were from Minneapolis several came from Columbus. That is one reason why Deputy Chief Blackwell wants to get Somali cops on the streets here.  Chopper to four.  Chopper if I can get you to head to the area of North High and East Bay the site of a purse snatching...  Deputy Chief Blackwell is driving his unmarked cruiser through the Wedgewood section of Columbus a Somali neighborhood. It is a quiet area with two-story brick buildings. It looks clean - no trash no broken windows.  As you can see a couple of Somali females walking down the street in their traditional garments that they wear.  Today Wedgewood is one of the communities where the Columbus Division of Police is recruiting Somalis for the force. Officers pass out Somali-language fliers and Blackwell has set up a program to help Somalis and other minorities in Columbus prepare for the police exam.  It is not like a cheat sheet - hey you just do this and you will pass. It is going to prepare you so that you know what is going to happen next.  That is the voice of the only Somali in all of Columbus Ohio to have passed the written part of the police exam. He wanted us only to use his first name - Ayanlee. And when he describes the class it sounds like an SAT prep course. The applicants get lists of vocabulary words and some guidelines on how to write a police report.  It prepares you for an idea of how it is going to be like. You know first you will do 100 multiple choice then you will do a video where something happens and you have to write a three-page four-page report on it.  Ayanlee passed the written part of the test but has not scored high enough to become a cadet. Only about a dozen Somalis have taken the test over the past three years even though the unemployment rate among Somalis in Columbus is nearly 40 percent.    Jibril Mohammed is a leader in the Somali community in Columbus. We talked outside an apartment complex in the Wedgewood neighborhood.  I do not think any recruitment effort that has been done has been working at all.  He said it is not just the exam that is the problem. It is a cultural divide.  Working with law enforcement somehow is stigmatized. It is associated with being a spy or being against the interests of the community in some ways. But that is something we are working on.  So would a parent want his son or daughter to become a police officer here in Columbus or do you think they would discourage them?  They would discourage them. Everybody wants their child to become a doctor or a lawyer or something. So...  A doctor - the FBI is still investigating whether the recent suicide bombing in Somalia may have been the work of a pre-med student from Minneapolis. Dina Temple-Raston NPR News.   You are listening to MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 