 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Liane Hansen. In Atlanta the two candidates left vying for mayor are reportedly in a statistical dead heat heading into a December runoff election. The city which has long been a nucleus of black political power could elect a white mayor for the first time in 30 years. Our series on race Beyond Black and White continues this week with a focus on race in the realm of politics and public policy. For that we are joined by NPR contributor Ruben Navarrette. He is a nationally syndicated columnist who has written extensively on the issue and he joins us from member station KPBS in San Diego California. Thanks for being with us. Welcome to the program Ruben.  Thanks Liane. Great to be here.  When we look at successful modern-day political campaigns and chief among them is Barack Obama's presidential campaign do you think that we are experiencing a generational shift toward political colorblindness?  I do. I think there is a lot to that. And I think you hit it exactly right. The generational angle is important both with the Barack Obama campaign and what is happening in Atlanta as you mentioned. There is a lot of folks who are just over it. They are just over the idea of racial differences and the notion of the significance of having an African-American political stronghold like Atlanta. I think that is a really refreshing trend but it does seem to show up a lot more with younger people now that you mention it.  But they are not obsolete. These racial identity politics are appealing to voters solely on the basis of race and self-interest.  Absolutely not. It should not be because it is ingrained in the American way of doing things. This is just another version of a very old story in the United States where other groups come along and they sometimes vote their interests or they think it is important to have an average American mayor of a city like Boston. It is pretty much in our fabric. It is as American as apple pie.  In the 2000 census people were allowed to choose more than one box for race but many civil rights leaders and groups like the Congressional Black Caucus opposed that effort. Could you tell us what the argument was?  Yeah you know there is a concern Liane that there is a diluting of our old paradigm. Our old paradigm in this country - will not surprise anyone to know - is black and white. We have become increasingly a multicolor Technicolor society where people do not fit into either category. But I think if you belong to either one of those camps you have in your best interest if someone like a Barack Obama comes along rather than have him check a box that says multiracial or multicultural you want him to be in the African-American box if you happen to be African-American. This is very much about a concern particularly in the African-American community I think but not exclusively so that we are moving away from a black and white paradigm. And as we do the power of the black community will in turn be diminished.  Explain how your mother's birth certificate is a metaphor for how the country's attitude about race has evolved.  Yeah. Like a lot of Hispanics born in the - Mexican-Americans in the case of my mother who was born in 1942 - people from that era were allowed really two choices on your birth certificate - you were either black or white. So if you look at my mother's birth certificate born in Edinburg Texas in 1942 it says white. And I have asked her about that before. It was just the way it was at the time. And I have interviewed other people. They have had experiences where they have asked their mothers and fathers. And when they ask say their mother why does your birth certificate say you are white? The answer comes back well obviously because I am not black. And so it is kind of hard to argue with that. Back in the day that is how we divided up the camps really into one of these two boxes. Now we have developed more boxes but I do not know if we are simplifying things. Our racial picture in America only seems to be getting more complicated.  The traditional civil rights paradigm in this country is still largely black and white but the country's Hispanic population now outnumbers that of African-Americans. So where do Latinos fit in?  Yeah it is a very good question. I will tell you what this was supposed to happen in 2010 that Latinos would outnumber African-Americans and become the number one minority in the country. It happened seven years ahead of schedule - it happened way back in 2003. And since that time in the last six or seven years or so we have had a difficult time answering the very question you put to me Where do Latinos fit in this blackwhite paradigm? And particularly when you are talking about civil rights legislation the history of civil rights Latinos I think fit into this very precariously because they seem themselves in many cases they draw parallels between the immigration rights movement of today and the Civil Rights Movement of yesteryear. I think they fit into it as I said very carefully. I think that most Latinos understand and they defer to the idea that African-Americans have a very special place in American society and this is not an attempt to supersede that to erase that at all. But then again you cannot ignore the numbers. It just does not make any sense to continue to think of America in black and white when we have long since moved beyond that realm.  Let us narrow it down a little to cities. I mean Los Angeles Miami and New York - some are seeing power struggles between blacks and Latinos in those cities. Do you characterize what is going on as a power struggle?  It is a power struggle. It is also a struggle for respect for relevance. African-Americans are speaking very clearly saying listen you know we have been here an awful long time. We have bled and died in many cases for these kinds of concessions that we won from government and the progress that we have made here over voting rights and the like. And they see Latinos as interlopers people who have just come along late to the game and ridden the coattails of African-Americans. Conversely Latinos say hey wait a minute in places like New Mexico and Arizona we have actually been here for 300 or 400 years. And we have been here quite a long time as it is. And just because the East Coast power structure has not taken note of that does not mean we also have not contributed over time including sending off a lot of our young men and women off to war not of all whom come back home safe and sound. So there is a lot to be said for both sides of it. What is interesting is if you live in Washington or a city like Atlanta for instance the paradigm is such that it is overwhelmingly African-American and you really do not get a sense of the blackbrown thing. If you go to Phoenix Arizona you see the opposite or San Antonio Texas you see the opposite. There you have a majority of Latinos and very few African-Americans. But you mentioned a handful of cities. There is about six or seven cities in America large cities where you have this tension at work - this blackbrown tension - Chicago L.A. Miami. And those are very interesting places but if nothing else they are sort of a microcosm sort of a laboratory for how we are going to work through this really incredibly important dimension between African-Americans and Latinos.  Ruben Navarrette is a nationally syndicated columnist and editorial board member of the San Diego Union Tribune. He joined us from member station KPBS in San Diego California. Ruben thanks a lot for being on the show.  My pleasure Liane. 