  Time now to check in with StoryCorps OutLoud recording conversations about LGBTQ life across America. Today we hear from 79-year-old Mary Ostendorf and her spouse Leslye Huff of East Cleveland Ohio. They first met in 1983. But like so many LGBTQ people back then Mary did not tell her family and Leslye went along with that.  You took me to meet your mom. I liked her. She was short like me and pretty vivacious. She and I sat and talked. And I thought the makings of a pretty good friendship was beginning.  And at StoryCorps the couple talked about how they kept their secret until Thanksgiving that year when they decided it was time to come out to Mary's mom.  I was debating whether I would say something at dinner or before dinner. I was still scared.  I have to tell you the closer it got to Thanksgiving the more I thought - I cannot let her come here under those pretenses. So  I called her on the phone and I explained the nature of our relationship. It was clear that it was not information that she welcomed. And as it turned out she did not come to Thanksgiving dinner. How did you feel about me having outed you to your mother?  It felt like I was walking on hot coals. But I loved you very much. I had made that decision already - that we were forever.  Then she got sick. And I was sitting there one day with her and you were coming from work. And we were looking out the window and she saw you coming. And that is when I said to her would you like to live with us? And the smile on her face was just - you know? It was beautiful to see. I knew that she wanted to make sure that she was with her daughter but she was not sure we would have her. And we made it happen did not we?  Mm-hm.  And I treated your mom like the sassy woman she was. We even danced together. I would put on music and she would get up and dance. I am holding her 'ecause she could not balance well. That was how the joy increased. But she had gone from doing quite well...  Very well.  ...To being almost comatose.  The priest came and he did the last rites. He asked me who that woman is. I said oh you mean Leslye? My partner. And my mother heard Leslye - she just perked up. The priest said you really like Leslye. My mother said I love Leslye.  I loved her too. We said that love heals the past the present and the future. And we are proving it every day.  That is Leslye Huff and Mary Ostendorf at StoryCorps in Cleveland Ohio. Their interview will be archived at the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress and featured on the StoryCorps podcast. Hear more from the StoryCorps OutLoud series at npr.org.  