 All right. So the situation is really bad in this pandemic in many parts of the country. And as we have been doing on this program let us zoom in on one particular state this morning North Dakota where positive cases are 60 higher than they were four weeks ago.  We have had a couple of record-breaking days in the last week or so and the curve is still going in the wrong direction. And I think that yeah we are going to continue to see cases increase.  That is Kirby Kruger the director of the North Dakota Department of Health's disease control division.  We started to see an increase gradual increase over the summer. And then when we got into fall we have more activities happening more transmissible moments. And colleges have started you know K-12 school starting. So I think that there was a combination of things happening that led up to this.  Many hospitals in this largely rural state right now are at capacity. And Dr. Doug Griffin is the chief medical officer at Sanford Medical Center in Fargo the largest hospital in the state.  I think a lot of times people in rural areas feel like hey we are immune to the things that happen in the big cities. That is clearly not the case with regards to this.  And you know when a pandemic gets worse in a largely rural state the challenges can be different. I mean if you start getting sicker really quickly it is not like you can just run to the hospital. The hospital might be hours away.  Sometimes they become critically ill from looking very well in just a matter of you know a few short hours. And so that is the very difficult thing. You know we will be talking to somebody - oh they look good now. You know maybe if you can hold them and let us know if and when they get worse you know sometimes there is just not that time. Sometimes that does delay them getting to the highest level of care that they need.  During the surge in North Dakota hospital staff have been getting sick as well. But with so many patients in need the governor made this stunning decision. He announced that nurses and other health care workers who test positive for COVID-19 can keep working as long as they are not showing symptoms. And Dr. Griffin says that worries him.  You know we appreciate the governor just really trying to be innovative you know for the staffing challenges that most of the hospitals around - or virtually all - have around the state. We currently are not planning to implement that. Yeah we do have the concerns. You know how does that work? What are the logistics of that? But at this point in time we personally are not planning to have any asymptomatic COVID-positive nurses on the job.  Do you support the idea as a last resort?  As a bit of a last resort is how I would characterize that. And then at that point in time we would really - there is many things to think about. You know it is not just the care of their patients but how would they interact with all the other staff that they are around? But we - we are not to that point.  What would be the threshold? I mean when would you have to consider that?  You know I think if we had no other way that we felt that we could safely staff our patients I think that would be it. But we have many options and many levers that we are pulling now to get the support for caring for our patients with our current staff.  The fact that the governor has had to make that move though and at least give hospitals the option I mean what does that tell us about this spike and how serious it is?  Yeah I think it tells us that it is very serious. As you know the governor has been - not wanted to implement a mask mandate but has very actively promoted personal responsibility on this. But to me it tells - him to make this sort of move I think there is a recognition that hey this is really putting a huge strain on hospitals across the state. And it is one attempt to help at the staffing across the . But I think it shows that hey this has gotten the attention of the - well of the government at the highest level.  Did you see this coming? I mean when - you know when months ago when things were bad in the cities and you know more rural parts of the United States were largely spared at least in the beginning did you see this see it getting here for you?  You know we thought it would come based on a few things. One you know the experts basically said no area would be spared and just the behavior in the state. I think there was some lull. We had a little bit of a surge in the spring. We managed that pretty comfortably. And I think the summer came and I think people got a bit confident that no maybe the worst has passed. But we were always fearful of what the end of the summer what the fall would bring and do that. Now did I think it would look exactly like this? I do not think so. But we had fully expected it would get worse. I think what has surprised me is that really just in a matter of days it is likely opened up a spigot and a huge number of patients influx to us.  It just happened so quickly.  Yes yeah.  Dr. Griffin is there a story or a patient or a few patients who - I do not know - they just stay in your mind as you have been watching this play out?  Yeah. I have been up on the unit and talked to our providers you know a number of times. And some of the stories are not good. I you know talked to a provider and he had said you know I had been in I had visited with this patient that had been there for a week or more and were improved to the point we had him all set to go home ride arranged. And just within a matter of hours he deteriorated and passed away. And it is that sort of thing about the disease that really has knocked the wind out of our providers. That is hard to see no matter who you are. So those have been the toughest stories. On the upside we play the song Here Comes The Sun any time we have a patient leave the unit or get discharged. And that brings a bit of a smile to people's faces and the patients like hearing that. So you know there are ups and downs and we certainly hope for more ups than there are downs as we care for these patients.  Well Dr. Griffin thank you for taking time out of a busy schedule and hope that the spike in North Dakota does not last too long. And we will be thinking about you and your staff.  We appreciate that. And we do as well. Thank you very much.    Here comes the sun do do do do . Here comes the sun... 