 So where else does a frazzled journalist find solace? Columnist Rheta Grimsley Johnson landed in the tiny town of Henderson Louisiana gateway to the Atchafalaya River Basin. She chronicles her love affair in a new book Poor Man's Provence Finding Myself in Cajun Louisiana. NPR's Debbie Elliott took a tour with her.  It started with an unwanted assignment to go on a wild boar hunt in Louisiana and write about it for the Atlanta newspaper. Rheta Grimsley Johnson finished the unpleasant task early and set out with her husband to explore the nearby Atchafalaya.  Ms.  This is basin landing marina.  We are walking along a maze of boardwalks lining Henderson Swamp. Ms.  Here she is.  She is pointing to one of the houseboats tucked beneath the moss-draped cypress and willow trees. Ms.  We saw the boat with the two signs. One said Green Queen the other said for sale and it began our great adventure.  Before long they decided to make The Green Queen their second home of sorts.  Ms.  It is a shanty boat. It is not a fancy houseboat yacht kind of affair. It is one room and it is the color of an after-dinner mint. And it is got vinyl siding and faux shutters and all green.  Ms.  Very green.  Here floating on the hydrilla-covered swamp Johnson says she felt a curious connection. Ms.  'ecause I had seen it before in some previous life. It was something so familiar yet strange. It was as if I had been here before and left and come back.  If it was the swamp that drew her it was the people of Henderson that kept her coming back for more than 10 years now. Ms.  Well there was this unusual almost anachronistic connection to the land that reminded me of my grandparents peanut farming in south Georgia. It was a way of life few have anymore. They prized time over money and family and friends over almost anything else. And I think they have got it right. Ms.  Entre of my house. Entre to my cabin. You understand I live in the woods so there is nothing fancy.  We have come to meet Helene Boudreaux a main character in the book. She is the Cajun French Music Association's Female Vocalist of the Year. But folks around here know her by another title. Ms.  Catahoula truck-driving Cajun mama.  Boudreaux is a retired long-distance truck driver turned singersongwriter. Her latest song is an ode to the town she grew up in. Ms.  This is my song about Catahoula my roots. And I am going to start it in French then go into English.  Ms.   Papa was a sugar cane farmer. We slept four in a bed. We had cracks - we had a sharecropper house. We had cracks in our floors. We would feed corn to the chickens under the house. When everybody would be sleeping I would raise the window to the bedroom - twelve one oclock in the morning and I would listen to the pansies in the woods. And you know I was all by myself in my own little world you know.  Beautiful Catahoula it is right on the edge of that swamp. Though my trees and my branches are gone now my roots and my heart still belong.  People from all over Acadiana come to see Boudreaux for her other calling. Ms.  Well they call it  safe healer. The Atakapa  the Indians lived here before the Acadians and the Europeans came. So these prayers were theirs and when they married into the Acadians and the Europeans well they passed their prayers down. The ones I have from my old aunt that is 300 years of prayers.  She has a special chant for just about anything that ails you. Ms.  Now a wart prayer  for warts for a female you say pigalit pigalit pigalit and tap the wart. Pigalit pigalit pigalit  tap the wart. And if it is a male it is pigalee pigalee pigalee  tap the wart.  While Poor Man's Provence captures unique characters like Helene Boudreaux it also gives an honest look at life in this working-class town where front yards are dotted with statues of the Virgin Mary and motorboats. Rheta Grimsley Johnson writes that Henderson is junky unplanned littered. And she does not shy away from what she calls the sadder parts of the culture  the poverty and child abuse she witnesses.   Back on the porch of The Green Queen houseboat Johnson peers out over the water and reads a passage from her book about evolution and the swamp. Ms.   Something begins to bubble beneath the green carpet of hydrilla unseen proof of life. Something else a nutria or muskrat slithers from water to land with a beginner's grace. There is movement in the tall grass. A heron with awkward legs crashes about at the edge of the Atchafalaya. A turtle plops from a log with a satisfying splash. The snowy egret dangles from a willow limb like a bowl of unpicked cotton. You also see the big tracks of Homo sapiens  abandoned pipelines and litter and oil streaks across the bayou's slick surface. The connection between our species and all the others is never so clear as while floating on Henderson swamp in early-morning light. We are a higher species with lowdown habits.  And all of us still have mud on our backs she says. Debbie Elliott NPR News. 