 If you are not a Spanish speaker you will not know precisely what Carla Morrison is saying when she sings.   .  But it does not matter if you do not understand because you can feel it. The Mexican alt-pop singer and songwriter has built a reputation over the past half-decade as a master of songs about love and longing. Her new album is called Amor Supremo and it is no different. Carla Morrison joins me now from Mexico City. Thanks so much for being with us Carla.  Oh thank you guys. How are you?  I am doing well thanks. So let us talk a little bit about your journey. You grew up in Mexico in Tecate which is a city right on the U.S. border. What did you grow up listening to?  A lot of Beach Boys 'ecause my dad's like a surfer guy. So  he was all into this like very beach stuff. And then a lot of ranchera and a lot of like Rocio Durcal and stuff like that. But mainly it was a lot of Patsy Cline. I - she is one of my main inspirations because my dad used to play her all the time. And I would think who is this lady and why is she so hurt? 'ecause I was so young. And then I just kept listening and listening until like I finally understood what she was talking about.   .  You have released several albums before this. And your songs on those are these acoustic but pretty modern-sounding pop songs that have threads of vintage bolero. But this album has a different kind of vibe altogether. Let us listen to a song. This is Cercania.   .  Can you tell me what you did differently this time around with this body of work?  My first band was a lot about synthesizers. So I kind of wanted to go back to that. I wanted to have a totally different view sonically. It was kind of like I do not want to be completely attached to a guitar all my career. And usually I always talk about the first part of the relationship or the last part. I do not really talk about the middle part when you decide to be with this person besides all the issues that you guys can have when you are saying OK I accept this. Or you talk about - like Cercania is a song about fighting about you said this and then I did not listen clearly. And then you said this and then you know you did not understand me. And then you know you used to say you loved me but you do not anymore.   . I do not know I just felt like love has a lot of different colors. It is not only you know the extremes. There is a lot of gray area that is very complicated that you know you got to kind of talk about too.  Can I ask you about how place informs what you do? Because you - you sing in Spanish. You live and make music in Mexico City. That is where you are based now right?  Yeah.  The names that tend to pop up like out of the Mexican music scene tend to be really big pop stars who have a certain kind of very pop-y  mainstream sound. Is there space for more alternative songwriting and music-making the kind of stuff that you are doing?  I think there is space if you fight for your space for your place. We kind of have to find it ourselves on social media because they are not going to put it on the radio. They are not going to put it on TV. They are just not you know. And it is like - it sucks.  So when you say you have had to fight can you give me an example of a moment when it felt really hard and that you were being pushed to compromise when you did not want to?  Well a lot of times when I would be approached by labels they would always tell me well we want to sign you up. And I would be like OK. I am excited you know I would get excited. And then I would get the proposal and everything was like we are going to decide over your art we are going to decide over who you are going to work with. We are going to decide everything. And I would think well then what am I going to do? So I just decided not to have a label. Also there is some times where people have pushed - put me down or talked down to me just because I do not have the image - a skinny image - and second of all because I am girl because I am tattooed. For the longest time if you are tattooed here in Mexico it is like you are kind of gross or you are just not professional or you are just not taken serious. And I was a very serious chick. And also I was very sweet. So you had this curvy tattooed pretty  sweet girl singing about love and about real love not about you know stuff that just sounds nice. And everybody just started to accept it. A lot of people were not - not too happy about it. They were like who is this chick? But all the people - my fans the people that actually buy my albums and go to my concerts - were liking it. They were like man this is so real. Like this girl is like me. So it is been hard but I do not care. Anything that is really great and it is really good it is going to cost you. And you are going to have to fight for it. And the more you fight the better it is going to be.  Carla Morrison her new album is called Amor Supremo. She joined us from Mexico City. Thanks so much for talking with us Carla.  No thank you. Thank you so much.   .  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. 