 This is a special breaking news update from UP FIRST and NPR News.  You are listening to NPR's live Special Coverage. I am Scott Simon also joined by Ari Shapiro. Joseph R. Biden of Delaware is now president-elect of the United States with the apparent award of The Associated Press NPR and other news organizations of the electoral votes of Pennsylvania in his column.  Let us bring in now NPR national political correspondent Mara Liasson who has been following every twist and turn of this long election process. And Mara now that we have a result what is your first takeaway?  My first takeaway is that this was a very solid victory and might get even more solid as some more states are called. The big question mark over this election is what were the voters trying to say? It is very rare when you have such a split verdict you know Democrats triumphing at the top with Joe Biden but losing seats in the House being completely shut out from gains in state legislatures. So a lot of Democrats are trying to figure this out. It is going to take a while. Exit polls are not always accurate. Was this a repudiation of Trumpism or just a rejection of Trump? Were - was it really true that voters were convinced in swing districts that Democrats were socialists? Or is Donald Trump just a uniquely motivating figure for his party the way Barack Obama was? Joe Biden I think continued the slow-motion realignment that is happening in America. It was not by leaps and bounds but he won by doing even better in the suburbs than Hillary Clinton and losing a little less badly than she did in the rural areas. But Trump got more voters out this time and probably will end up with a little bit higher than the 46.1 of the vote he got last time.  Yeah.  And then the question is...  And I mean you have raised...  ...Can Republicans repeat - yeah - so many...  You have raised so many interesting questions here.  Yeah.  I mean - so Joe...  Yeah. I mean if you asked me what my takes were...  .  ...And that is - yeah that is what I am trying to figure out .  So OK Joe Biden and Kamala Harris received a record number of votes on their ticket. And also as you point out Donald Trump...  And a solid percentage of margin.  And a solid - and also as you point out more people voted for Donald Trump this time than four years ago. How do you reconcile those two things?  Yes. Well his base is very enthusiastic. He found more people to join it more people that looked like his base but it still was not big enough this time. There were no third-party candidates. So you cannot - he could not win with under 50. Joe Biden got over 50. The big question for Republicans is can they recreate the Trump coalition? They did recreate the Trump coalition this time but it was not big enough to keep the White House. Can they do that when he is off the stage and just tweeting and being the kind of de facto head of the Republican Party? Which he will be - as long as he is alive he is the most important factor in the Republican Party. And we do not know what that means for the Republicans as they try to reinvent reimagine themselves post-Trump.  I also want to kind of cynically say now that we know that Joe Biden and Kamala Harris have taken the White House we can get back to talking about the split in the Democratic Party right? I mean there is this question...  Well yes but here's...  ...Of what role the left flank will play in another administration.  Yes. OK. Well that is really interesting because usually what happens now - remember Joe Biden is going to be the first Democrat since Grover Cleveland to come into office without control of both houses of Congress. It is very rare that a win - a new president does not have at least a two-year window when he has Congress to push through an agenda. Usually there is some overreach there and the first midterm happens and they lose one or both houses of Congress. Guess what. By definition there is going to be no overreaching because he cannot because Mitch McConnell is standing there in the middle of the road - not in the middle of the road ideologically. I mean in the middle...  We should clarify that the Senate is not totally settled.  ...Stopping whatever he wants to stop.  There are two runoff...  Not totally set yet.  ...Seats in Georgia.  If the Senate stays in Republican hands...  We will not know until January.  Right.  Yeah. I mean...  Right.  ...In a way could that...  So the question is...  ...Provide cover for Joe Biden?  Yeah.  Obviously he would prefer...  Yes.  ...Democrats to...  Yes.  ...Control the Senate but...  That is exactly...  ...Can he shrug and say well I would...  Exactly.  ...Love to put Elizabeth Warren in charge of Treasury but...  He can say to the left...  But yeah.  Yes. Yes exactly. What I am saying - no overreaching by definition - he cannot. So the left is going to have to be patient and get what they can. And I have been - when I have been asking a lot of people about this but - and what they are saying is - this is Democrats - this is certainly not what we wanted not everything we wanted. But who better to handle this situation than centrist pragmatic half-a-loaf Joe - you know someone who is willing to make deals to settle for what he can get move the ball down the field one inch at a time and keep his eyes firmly focused on 2022 when there are an awful lot of Republicans in the Senate up for reelection?  That is NPR national political correspondent Mara Liasson.  We are joined now by U.S. Senator Chris Coons of Wilmington Del. - of course a long-time friend of the president-elect. Senator Coons thanks very much for being with us.  Thank you Scott. It is always great to be on.  I think anybody from Delaware is entitled to a moment of personal reaction.  Scott there were a lot of smiles tears and tears of relief and joy in our house folks up and down my street. I was outside working in the yard when the news came across. And there were people ringing cowbells honking their horns yelling out their windows. This is a moment of really deep joy. I believe Joe has literally redeemed the soul of our nation and that Joe Biden and Kamala Harris will go on to make history to bring our country together to get us out of this mess that Donald Trump's gotten us into with the pandemic and the recession and help us find our way towards each other again and make our country safer healthier stronger and more just.  At the same time Senator it must be noted that the complete repudiation of the Trump administration that so many Democrats had not only longed for but in many ways expected given the indications of many of the polls has not happened. The Congress certainly may be divided. Democrats lost seats for sure in the House. I do not have to tell you what state legislatures look like across the country. What does that tell you?  Well Scott in a positive way first I will say you know Joe Biden will become president with a record number of votes the greatest popular vote margin ever. And he will have flipped at least three maybe four or even five large states from Pennsylvania Michigan Wisconsin maybe also including Georgia and Arizona. But you are right that in the Senate and the House the results were not what we had worked for and hoped for. And the same is true of state legislative bodies. And that is a reminder that this is a deeply divided country. Joe knows that. He knows that there is hard work to do ahead to heal the divides in our country and to lead in a way that brings people together. From the very first days of his campaign he is spoken about his vision of being someone who ran as a Democratic candidate but who will govern as an American president. That is harder than ever and will be more challenging than ever but it is more important than ever.  Senator Coons your name has been mentioned as joining a new administration. Is that something you would like to do?  Well look I am on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and I deeply enjoy working hard on behalf of the people of Delaware and our country on a variety of issues and among them are foreign relations. Joe unlike many who get elected to president has decades of deep experience in foreign policy. And so he has around him a whole team of very capable people from whom he could choose. If I were to get asked I would be honored to serve. But frankly I think it is more likely that I will be serving in the Senate where there is a lot of challenging work to do to rebuild some bipartisanship. Either way I would be honored to serve the people of Delaware and to work closely with a Biden-Harris administration.  You are touching on something though Senator. To even get Cabinet - his Cabinet appointments confirmed - and I am not even going to mention the possibility of a Supreme Court nomination that might obviously be years down the road - he will need some Republican votes. How do you do that?  Well I have spent a lot of time the last few days on the phone with my colleagues Democrats and Republicans trading calls congratulating each other but then also talking about...  We should note...  ...The path forward.  ...You have also got an election victory to celebrate.  Yes .  Congratulations.  Yes. The fact of my own reelection frankly is obviously transcended by the significance of the presidential election. And in the context of those calls between senators you know politely calling each other to say congratulations on your reelection we have also been talking about this moment.  Yeah.  We just cannot continue in the way we have been. And Majority Leader McConnell from my perspective has blocked and thwarted most of the significant initiatives of the Obama-Biden administration and has made the last four years and certainly the last two an almost exclusive focus on confirming conservative judges and justices. Our country needs a functioning Senate and a functioning Congress to deliver pandemic relief to address racial inequality to tackle climate change to rebuild our economy. But the answers to each of those key questions is going to have to be something that can clear the Senate. And that is more challenging than it is ever been. But I think if there is someone who can set the right tone build the right momentum and then invest himself in this effort it is Joe Biden.  But Senator something else you touch on - do you give Senator McConnell and Republicans in the Senate what you know some people in your party want which is a taste of their own medicine or do something else?  Well in this context look first let us be clear. There is four unresolved Senate races. So we are talking as if there is a certainty about a Republican majority. We will not know that until after the January runoffs in Georgia. But in any event it will be a closely divided Senate - either just a few votes one way or a few votes the other. And you know I think what I hear in Delaware from Delawareans and what I have heard across the country in the year and a half I have spent working with and for Joe and Kamala on their campaign - what I hear everywhere is why cannot you all work together and actually deliver solutions to the very real problems that people care about day in and day out - prescription drug prices the opioid addiction problems the challenges of this pandemic and injustice? We have got to solve that and it cannot be done in a partisan way.  Senator Chris Coons thanks so much.  Thank you Scott.  You are listening to NPR's live Special Coverage. I am Scott Simon also joined by Ari Shapiro.  Stay with us. Lots more Special Coverage to come on this day that Biden and Harris have secured the presidency and vice presidency. It is NPR News.   Thanks for listening to this special update. You can go to npr.org and also tune into your local NPR station for live coverage of this developing story.  