 Now that Thanksgiving's behind us it is officially Christmas season. How do you know this? Maybe you have seen trees for sale. Maybe you have been in a store playing Christmas music. Or maybe you have logged onto Netflix and been bombarded with an array of romantic comedies set around the holidays. NPR's Linda Holmes is with me to discuss one of the new films out today. It is a sequel to what I am told was last year's viral sensation.   It is true.  A Christmas Prince. Good morning Linda.  Good morning Rachel.  So let us just talk about the original film. Let us try to be a little bit sincere. What...  .  Can we?  .  What is it about Linda?  So it is about a journalist who goes to investigate a young prince. And she as you do is able to slip into the castle through an unguarded side door. You know how castles are.  Totally.  She goes in there. She is mistaken for the tutor for the prince's young sister. So eventually you know she will be discovered and have to come clean but by then they will be in love. And that is A Christmas Prince.  That is A Christmas Prince.  Yeah.    But my whole life is in New York.   We can come back as much as you want.   But my career - I am not ready.   I do not want to make you give up anything Amber. How long do you plan to keep a king on his knees?   It is going to be up for many awards this year.  Many many awards.  Many awards.  So the sequel picks up where we left off.  Yeah.  So now...  They have their wedding planned for Christmas.  OK.  This is A Christmas Prince The Royal Wedding.  OK.  So the whole idea of the film is that she is getting used to the idea of becoming a member of the royal family.  Because she is just a regular...   Because she is just a regular girl. She still has a blog. I mean who still has a blog right? She does.  She does ever.  So she has to get ready to be assimilated into the royal family and that causes her some anxiety. But spoiler alert - it will not keep them from getting married .  Oh - phew. Is this sequel expected to do equally as well?  I think that a lot of people will sit around and watch it with the same genuine enjoyment and a little of that ironic detachment with which they watched the first one.  So here's what I will say. Having never seen the original when I watched the sequel...  Were you able to keep up?  Oh it was tough in the beginning. In all honesty it is like when you are watching Shakespeare and you are trying to get into the language and then all of a sudden you are like I get it - is the beginning of Christmas Prince for me the sequel. I am watching it and I am like this is the stupidest thing I have ever seen. This is a total waste my time. I cannot even pretend it is funny. And then I am like what is going to happen to Amber?  They gobble you up. It will gradually overtake you. And there are many people who will say the day that Rachel Martin compared watching A Christmas Prince The Royal Wedding to watching Shakespeare is the day that we all just gave up and...  Humanity crumbled into a black hole.  ...Humanity crumbled.  Yeah.  I disagree. I think this is the season where I indulge in this kind of thing the most I always have. There are other cable channels that specialize in these movies. Lifetime has some. Hallmark is kind of the monster of this kind of thing. This is the time of year.  Wrap yourself up in a blanket...  Wrap yourself...  ...Of holiday goodness.  ...Up in a blanket. If you have perhaps a mulled beverage a cuddly dog.  It works well.  Yeah. It is a whole experience.  What is your favorite Christmas movie trope?  My favorite Christmas movie trope is probably the small business that is reinvigorated by the Christmas season.  Oh yes.  In some of these movies it will be a cake business. In one it is a year-round Christmas hat store...  .  ...Which seems like it would be a niche business.  It is a tough market I would think.  Yeah it seems like it would be a niche market but they make the year-round Christmas hat store work. But it is really reinvigorated as you can imagine by it actually being Christmas.   I am going to find myself a mulled beverage. And I am going to curl up and look forward to this and many other holiday soon-to-be classics.  Do it.  NPR's Linda Holmes. Thanks Linda.  Thanks Rachel. 