 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am Renee Montagne. After 25 years Oprah Winfrey is calling it a day on her daytime talk show. The legendary TV host will end her syndicated broadcast in 201l when her show concludes its 25th season. She is hardly leaving the media though. Winfrey co-owns with Discovery Communications an entire cable network. The OWN Network - that stands for the Oprah Winfrey Network - is expected to launch its programs next year. Oprah's influence of course extends far beyond television. To see what might be in store for her next we have Matthew Belloni in our studio. He is features editor at the Hollywood Reporter. Good morning. Mr.  Good morning.  Oprah leaving network TV of course is a huge deal in a lot of ways. What would be at the top of your list? Mr.  Well I think there is two major reasons that this is a big deal. First culturally. I mean more than seven million people watch her show every day. And she has a brand. She has a brand that people listen to. She has a brand that if it endorses something people are more likely to buy that thing. A lifestyle really that she is created - that Oprah now means something. Secondly I think it is a major change in the television business. Oprah is one of the most famous people in America and now she is going to be  The world actually. Mr.  Yeah absolutely. And now she is going to be on cable. And I think this new network that she is starting it instantly puts that on the map. People are going to look for it. They are going to be able to charge bigger fees. They are going to be able to charge more to advertisers. It is going to be something that is now a destination for a lot of different people.  One of the reasons that people you know care for her so much is that she is a little bit different than other talk show hosts in that she is in the words that you hear are inspirational that it is something of a calling that you know her TV show stands quite separate from others. Mr.  That is true. The Oprah brand does stand for something. And she has a very powerful voice. And she uses that brand to promote people and you know everything from books to films to products. Anything that carries the Oprah stamp of approval people pay attention to those.  So why now? Mr.  Well there is a lot of things at work. I think you know 25 years is a nice round number. I think that the landscape of television is changing. Cable is a much more dominant force now. And she can go and be a big fish on cable. And as much power as she has amassed in television now she is going to own the pipe as well as the water in the pipe. So it is a big deal for her.  And not a great deal for those stations that actually run her show. I mean it is a rough time for the broadcast industry and her show is among other things a huge lead-in for the local evening news which is a money maker. Mr.  That is true. I mean in addition to the station groups that air her show the ABC stations especially which has nine of the ten top markets that Oprah's in that is going to be a big loss. I mean the scramble is on now to try to fill that spot and find something that people will want to watch in the greater numbers. And the fact is it is just not out there right now.  Do you expect Oprah Winfrey to do a different kind of daily show? Because she still will be on the air on her network. Mr.  Sure. You know I think a lot is left to be seen. She has not announced what she is specifically going to be doing. You know she could do a show very similar to her current show. She could do something completely different. Having a talk show every day and having an entire network is a very different thing. And you know they have announced some shows that are going to be on the OWN Network. And for instance one of them is something called Master Class which is a show about extraordinary people that are quote unquote handpicked by Oprah. So I think you are going to see a lot of the Oprah brand on that network. Whether it will be the talk show as we know it now remains to be seen.  Thanks very much for joining us. Mr.  Sure.  Matthew Belloni is the managing editor of features at the Hollywood Reporter. 