 You know we could all use a good companion these days. A dog - but they shed. A cat - but they scratch. How about a snail?   Snails are so hot right now.  Social media is filled with posts of pet snails suddenly - videos of snails munching salads set to smooth jazz even a snail song from the New Zealand singer Benee.    I am like a snail. You are a guy. Kind of mad I cannot fly. When it is day hide away but come out when it rains.  Comedian and celebrity chef Nadia Giosia aka Nadia G. discovered snails as potential pets not appetizers when she ordered some houseplants online.  And then all of a sudden this little rock plops down.  That rock turned out to be a snail. It was kind of cute but...  Everywhere that you look online they are like do not touch snails. They have got rat lungworm disease. And we are in the midst of a pandemic. You know the last thing I need with crappy health insurance is rat lungworm.  But you would have to eat a raw snail to get that disease. She just could not bring herself to do that.  And a week goes by and we kind of start bonding. He is pretty adorable.  She named the snail Leroy later added a pal Edna. Nadia G. says that part of the appeal of snails is their expressiveness. She really believes in that.  You know sometimes they are wiggling around and I would imagine that that means they are having a good time kind of like how a dog wags their tail. Other times their antennaseye stalks get super droopy. And that is when they are in what I like to call snecstacy .  Chicago area artists Aleia Murawski and Sam Copeland were way ahead of the snail curve. They saw artistic possibilities in the itsy-bitsy mollusks about five years ago when they were working on miniature still lifes.  And so we had this light bulb moment where we realized the sets that we were creating were roughly snail-sized. And so we introduced them into our projects. And they really activated our work and made it come to life.  Their current star is named Velveeta. And you can see them - snails by the way are hermaphrodites - on Instagram and TikTok. They could be working at the computer keyboard bowling dating or reenacting scary scenes from The Exorcist The Shining or Poltergeist.  They are great actors . I mean it is definitely a collaboration because we cannot will the snail to do anything. We can only hope that they will be interested in what is around them. And that is what is so wonderful about working with snails is that they have this curiosity.  And lunch - all it takes is a little bit of cucumber juice to get the most out of these swirly shelled thespians whether they are nudging a mini bowling ball or dramatically exiting a room.  Often we are so blown away. Like they really do seem invested in finding out what is around them and exploring the scene around them. And it is very charming because they - you know we made this miniature Ouija board and we put it in front of them. And the snail moved the planchette around. And we are just like we could not ever ask for anything more magical than that.  Of course British snails get all the best roles. Aleia Murawski says that Velveeta and her friends are helping her get through this pandemic.  So many scenes that I create are you know me processing the world and some of my fears and also dreams. And it just makes everything feel funnier and silly and kind of workable. Yeah I am so grateful for these tiny creatures.    When you are down and troubled and you need some love and care... 