 Scott thanks for joining us.  It is good to be with you.  Right. And it sounds like the president had about as broad an agenda as is possible.  Yes. He covered a lot of ground today both in his meeting with the prime minister Manmohan Singh and later in a speech to India's parliament. He is basically saying that India's help is indispensible if the U.S. and other countries are going to tackle big problems ranging from terrorism to global climate change.  It is no coincidence that India is my first stop on a visit to Asia or that this has been my longest visit to another country since becoming president.   For in Asia and around the world India is not simply emerging. India has emerged.   And in recognition of that growing power Mr. Obama said something today that Indians have been waiting to hear and that is that the U.S. will back India's push for a permanent spot on the U.N. Security Council. Now he has cautioned that reform of the Security Council is likely to be a complicated and drawn-out process but the president says this is just a recognition of the new reality of the 21st century and India's place in it.  And today's formal diplomacy and those more formal announcements follow some more personal outreach by the president. Yesterday he held a town hall meeting with university students in Mumbai and I gather he got some pretty tough questions from those students about Pakistan.  Yeah. That is always a sensitive subject here in India. The Indians are wary about the United States' cooperation with Pakistan its neighbor and rival. It was Pakistani extremists who carried out a deadly attack in Mumbai two years ago this month. And Mr. Obama was grilled about that by a 19-year-old college student Afsheen Irani.  Why is Pakistan so important an ally to America so far as America has never called it a terrorist state?  Well no no. It is a good question and I must admit I was expecting it.   Mr. Obama said Pakistan is strategically important - not only for the U.S. but for the whole world. And as a result he said the U.S. is working with the Pakistani government to combat extremism within that country. He actually argued that it is in India's interests as much as anyone's to have a stable and prosperous Pakistan next door. The administration has long argued that U.S. ties to India and Pakistan do not have to come at the expense of one another. Not everyone here in India agrees with that.  And the White House has been billing this as a trip about job creation as well. Mr. Obama has been playing salesman during the trip. How well has he been doing?  That is right. His visit to Mumbai over the weekend coincided with a big get-together of U.S. and Indian business leaders. And while that was going on the administration trumpeted close to 10 billion in U.S. sales to India. Even today in between his official meetings the president's dropping in on meetings with some business leaders. The president knows that even as he is traveling around Asia the big concern for folks back home is jobs. And so the White House is trying to sell the message that this is - this trip is an effort by the president to boost exports and put more Americans back to work.  We have been talking with NPR's Scott Horsley traveling with the president in India. 