 The tech industry has enjoyed decades free of major regulation but there is a growing techlash  over how much power these big companies have and also their ability to amplify disinformation. So will President-elect Biden take on the tech industry? Before we dig into that question we do just want to note that Facebook TikTok are both financial supporters of NPR. Let us turn to NPR tech reporter Bobby Allyn. Bobby good morning.  Good morning David.  So big picture - what should Silicon Valley expect from a Biden White House?  Yeah. So in short big tech will be in Biden's crosshairs. Look like you mentioned for years tech companies have avoided government regulation and that is let Big Tech prosper and become integral in our daily lives. I mean just look at the pandemic. We really know how much we need and use tech every single day and that is made the tech companies larger and richer. There have been many loud calls in Washington to take on the tech sector. But in the Trump administration there have been you know very few new regulations. I talked to Darrell West at the Brookings Institution and he says that could start to change under Biden.  The era of permissionless innovation is over. There is going to be more public engagement public oversight and public regulation of the technology sector.  So are we talking about like major legislation other big changes in how these social platforms are going to be operating?  Yeah perhaps. So in Silicon Valley where I am located all eyes are on the future of this law known as Section 230. And it is this decades-old law that shields online companies from lawsuits. And it you know basically lets them decide what is allowed and what is not allowed to be on platforms like Facebook and Twitter. And conservatives have called this censorship. Democrats do not. But even Democrats agree that the law gives Big Tech a free pass. Biden has said that Section 230 should be revoked immediately. And if that sounds familiar David it is because Trump has basically said the same exact thing. In reality though this law is the foundation of the modern Internet. It really enables free expression online so do not expect it to be totally scrapped. That is according to Stanford law professor Mark Lemley.  What the platforms really want to avoid is losing the legal liability shield. They would be happy to sort of have some oversight and regulation if it meant that they still kept their immunity.  And I will note here - a Biden campaign spokesman recently tweeted that Facebook is quote shredding the fabric of our democracy over the platform not doing enough to take on misinformation. So Biden's people sound like they are ready to play hardball with tech though executives from Amazon Uber and Airbnb are part of Biden's transition team. So we will see what effect they have.  Are we going to see hardball as well when it comes to TikTok? I mean you have President Trump who has spent months trying to ban the you know massively popular video app. Are we going to see a different course from Biden?  Yeah. You know this summer Biden made his campaign staff delete Chinese-owned TikTok from their phones. And Biden has called the app quote a matter of genuine concern. That said picking up Trump's push to you know put the company out of business is not likely going to be Biden's path. Biden advisers like the Trump administration you know raise alarms about intrusions into Americans' data and the possibility of Chinese espionage though you know an all-out war with TikTok like the one Trump has launched - do not expect that from the Biden White House. You know most folks I talked to said you know Biden's likely to be more strategic less antagonistic. And David actually today was supposed to be a big day for TikTok. It was the deadline for them to sell their U.S. assets to an American company but they say they are not ready to do that. I asked the Department of Justice - hey are you going to enforce the president's order? And nine hours after I asked they declined to comment. So I guess Trump has his mind focused on other things right now.  The story goes on. NPR's Bobby Allyn. Thanks Bobby.  Hey thanks David. 