 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. Good morning. I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am Linda Wertheimer in for Renee Montagne. Today in Your Health loving and loathing chocolate milk. But first an update on a problem we told you about a few weeks ago - drug shortages. NPR's Richard Knox says lots of people are now having trouble getting medications to treat attention-deficithyperactivity disorder or ADHD.  Nearly one in 10 school kids has ADHD. One of them is 10-year-old Sergey Ryan. His mother Roxanne says without his meds he is a bundle of uncontained energy.  It is like having a hundred channels racing through your mind. He cannot sit still. He would interrupt the lesson. He cannot complete a thought.  But once Sergey got on the right medicine things smoothed out.  We started off with a very small amount and we noticed improvement immediately.  That is a pretty typical story. And so is this After Sergey got diagnosed with ADHD his mom did too. It often runs in the family. But lately they are both having trouble getting their prescriptions filled. Ryan sometimes drives around to 10 different drugstores to find what they need.  I am afraid that when we go to fill his prescription next week they will not have it.  She is so afraid that lately she is been giving her medicine to Sergey so he does not run out. And the shortage is not just in Philadelphia where they live. Dr. Joseph Gonzalez-Heydrich in Boston says lately he is had to juggle a lot of kids' prescriptions to drugs like Ritalin and Adderall based on what drugs and doses are in stock. DR.  We are guessing at what might be good enough for now and hoping that the kid's not going to suffer in school and whatnot because of it.  And in some areas the situation's even worse. The group Children and Adults with ADHD says lots of people cannot get any at all.  People are going without. That is what we are hearing.  Ruth Hughes heads the group. She says the implications go beyond kids driving their parents and teachers nuts.  This is not just oh I cannot focus. Because you cannot focus there are other very adverse circumstances that happen. Teen pregnancy or dropping out of school drug abuse substance abuse of some sort those are the kind of things that happen when people have very poor impulse control.  Young adults with ADHD have three times more car accidents.  So it is very important that they are taking their medication when they are driving to control those symptoms.  Nobody knows how many people are affected by the shortages. Up to 15 million children and adults are thought to have ADHD and about half of children with the disorder take these drugs. Valerie Jensen is with the Food and Drug Administration's Office of Drug Shortages.  We have literally had hundreds per week of inquiries about this so we know it is impacting a lot of patients.  But trying to figure out why there is a shortage is a big challenge. Different experts even different government agencies give you very different reasons. The Drug Enforcement Administration does not think there is a shortage at all.  You know I guess there is sort of an assumption there that there is in fact a shortage.  That is Gary Boggs of the DEA. It is involved because these medications are classified as drugs-of-abuse and strictly controlled. So the DEA sets an annual ceiling on how much of these drugs can be made. It focuses on the total amount of active ingredients being manufactured. And from that perspective Boggs says there is no shortage.  There is plenty of the drug available out there. It is just how it is being marketed and how these companies make business decisions. And those business decisions that they make are completely outside of our control.  One company may have run out of its quota another has plenty. One company only sells to Rite-Aid another only to CVS. One's generic the other brand-name. And so on. Ask drug companies and they say the DEA's annual quota has not been keeping up with demand and that a company can wait three months for the DEA to increase its individual quota. But for people like Roxanne Ryan in Philadelphia it does not do much good to know there is plenty of medicine out there somewhere. If she cannot get what she needs now she will continue giving her pills to Sergey.  It is sacrificing so that my son can have. Every parent does that.  Richard Knox NPR News. 