 It is PR News. I am Renee Montagne.  And I am Steve Inskeep. Good morning. Let us talk about the gender gap in the election results. We are joined now by Democratic pollster Celinda Lake. She is on the line. Welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me.  And we are expecting a Republican pollster along shortly as soon as we establish communications. But let us start talking here. Exit polling of course showed a gender gap last night. Men  more men anyway went for Romney. More women went for Obama. Why?  There were a couple of reasons. First of all women are more Democratic in their orientation anyway. And that started actually in 1980 with Ronald Reagan.  Mm-hmm.  Secondly women really felt that Barack Obama was more in touch with their lives and that he would develop economic policies that would help their families more. And that was an argument that really got culminated at the end of the election. Women were back and forth on that issue during the fall but really came to conclude that it was a combination of not just getting the economy going but who you are going to get the economy going for - me and my family. And then women see more of a role for government...  Well let me stop you there for a moment...  Sure.  ...and bring Kellyanne Conway into the conversation. She is a Republican pollster. We have just been hearing Celinda Lake say that - according to polls anyway - that women told pollsters that they found President Obama more in touch with their concerns. I would like to know from you - why do you think that there was such a gender gap that Republicans lost so many women votes?  Well the gender gap is not surprising for a couple of reasons. President Obama in 2008 carried women by 13 points.  Mm-hmm.  I believe he carried them by about 12 last night so he is right on track for what he got the first time. The second thing is that traditionally men  it is an over-generalization but men tend to favor Republicans women tend to favor Democrats. I note with great curiosity the president did not talk about you know putting up the firewall against the so-called War on Women. He didnt have any of that charged political rhetoric last night.  Last night.  He was pretty much - humble guy. And I will say that in terms of the gender vote the real attrition was with Barack Obama among men. He may be the first successfully re-elected president in modern history who actually lost more votes among men. And if I were the folks in Chicago today I would take a look at that as well.  OK. Let us talk about both of those things in the couple minutes we have left. Let us stay with women for a moment. Kellyanne Conway I know - and I think you are implying here - that Republicans felt this was a smokescreen it was so much chaff. If the president got in trouble during the campaign they would bring up Todd Akin of Missouri. They would bring up a remark by - an embarrassing remark by a Republican. But in the light of day is there actually a fundamental difference between the parties on the role of women?  Well first of all I really reject this nonsense premise that there are quote women issues. I dont know when we got into that unfortunate construct because it suggests by implication that women can only be talked to from the waist down - which I reject categorically. I have never ever - in 25 years in politics - heard anybody refer to quote men's issues. Why? Because all issues are considered to be men's issues. So I would like all issues to be considered women's issues as well. That does not mean there is not a subset that are not  cited in this election. But where are the exit polls showing that women's views on - or this entire conversation about abortion or contraception really made the difference in some of these swing states? And thats a really important point because whenever we talk it is gone from - you know abortion to choice to women's issues...  Right.  ...to health. And it just - to me it becomes a real smokescreen against what women are telling pollsters from both sides of the aisle or that motivating issues for them yesterday which were predominantly  Let me - let me stop...  ...jobs crime and health care.  Let me stop you there because we have just got a few seconds left for Celinda Lake. I want to come back to you on this - the question of men. In a few seconds why did the president do so poorly with men and is that a danger signal for the Democratic Party?  Well he did better with women than he did with men and the key to victory here is for Democrats to win women more by they lose - than they lose men by - which is how we picked up seats in the Senate.  But is that a danger signal that....  No it is not a danger signal ...  ...you would lose men's votes?  ...because women vote in higher rates than men and there are more women voters than men. And I think victory speaks for itself. But I do have to contest what Kellyanne said which is...  About five seconds here.  ...women voted for Barack Obama also because they wildly favored him on health care. And the highest recall ad out there was Mitt Romney's support of defunding Planned Parenthood...  OK got to stop there. Celinda Lake and Kellyanne Conway thanks to you both.  Thank you very much.  Thank you. 