 Some of the government's biggest obligations are in Medicare. Two million baby boomers could sign up for Medicare prescription drug coverage before the end of this year as Kelley Weiss reports.   Seniors can have a tough time choosing Medicare Part D plans for drug coverage so they often recruit savvy family members.  Yeah I was in the banking business.  That is Scott Mattei and he is talking about doing real estate appraisals to be exact which he says is not like helping his mother-in-law enroll in Medicare.  Yeah no. I could not relate it. It is more complex than that.  He and his mother-in-law Marsha Mueller are at the University of the Pacific Pharmacy School's free Medicare enrollment event in a suburb outside of Sacramento. Mueller says she takes nine medications.  I just need to find the best way to spend my money. You know I do not have a lot of money - retired you know and Social Security.  One expert at the event Margaret Reilly works for a nonprofit in Sacramento that helps explain Medicare benefits. Reilly says Congress created offices like hers around the country.  I think signing up for Medicare is a little bit like being in purgatory and you need somebody to help you get out of there.  This year here's what Reilly's telling seniors they will see fewer Part D plans because of the new federal health care law. California for example had 47 last year and now there is 30. And Reilly says most seniors will not have a co-pay for many preventive services.  The bone density test prostate cancer screening for men there is now actually more of an annual physical. Doctors are going to be busy.  About three million seniors will have to choose new Medicare advantage plans because the old ones do not offer all the benefits required under new federal regulations. And Reilly says there is now a discount for seniors who take expensive brand-name drugs and fall into the infamous doughnut hole.  In 2011 if you reached the gap right now folks are paying 100 percent of the cost of that medicine by next year they will pay 50 percent and the plan will pay 50 percent and they will move through the gap at the same rate without paying same amount of money.   OK so we know about some of the changes and one way to get help but there is another option.  Let us take it all the way back Jeff and we will put your zip code in here OK? Then it will...  Ross Blair is the CEO of Plan Prescriber. He is at a Sacramento call center with Jeff Orwig going through Plan Prescriber's website - that compares Medicare plans. Orwig's self-employed turns 65 next month and takes four pricey prescription drugs.  I have had open heart surgery so my health insurance over the years has been very expensive.  He says the official Medicare.gov website is frustrating.  Well it is sort of a joke for me because three different times it would not even let me on the site to decipher what I wanted to learn.  Last year Blair says one-and-a-half million people used his website - one of several designed to help seniors. He says it is a free service because insurers pay Plan Prescriber a commission for new customers. After plugging in Orwig's medications Blair goes over the costs.  And you can see the savings range anywhere from 500 up to 3200 a year. Not all plans are created equal. It is really important to look at all the alternatives that are available out there.  For NPR News I am Kelley Weiss in Sacramento.   It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 