 It takes years of experience in cultivating trusted sources to break major sports stories such as Billy Butler of the American League champion Kansas City Royals was close to signing with the Oakland A's. That story was broken by Devan Fink. Mr. Fink is 13 years old. He runs a website called Cover Those Bases. Then 18-year-old Robert Murray confirmed details of that deal. Fox's Ken Rosenthal - who looks to me like he is got to be at least in his 40s - confirmed the news and the scoop of two youngsters.   These two guys kicked my butt and everyone else's butt last night - more power to them.  We are joined now by Devan Fink of Cover Those Bases. Let us repeat he is 13 years old. Mr. Fink thanks for being with us.  Thanks for having me on.  So how did you break these stories?  Well I mean I have been doing this for two years now and I developed a network of Twitter followers and Twitter followings. And I was able to get some info. And I was able to confirm that with Ken Rosenthal.  Mr. Fink how do you get people to talk to you? I mean forgive me 13-year-old boys have a problem getting 13-year-old girls to talk to them. How are you talking to sources in major league baseball?  Well I mean they have been following my work and they just recently found out my age back in February. They have just really liked my website and what I have been writing on it and so they have decided come out and reach out to me.  How did you get into sports reporting?  Well it was two years ago. My grandfather has been a Phillies fan since 1950. And two years ago he passed away. And when he passed away my mom got me a journal to write to continue to talk to him 'ecause we used to talk about baseball all the time. And so I took that really one step further and developed my own website to talk to him and you know just tell him what is going on in baseball.  Yeah so is this what you want to do for your professional life you think?  Well I mean it is definitely on my radar. I think you know it is something that I would be interested in doing when I am an adult. But I am still many years away. I am in eighth grade so I have got four years of high school really before I can choose what I want my profession to be. Currently just writing - baseball is my thing. But I just love baseball and love the sport.  We are a few months from spring training but who looks good to you?  Well I mean the teams that look really good right now are you know the Washington Nationals. I think they are - have one of the deepest rosters in all of the game and you know they have got good pitching. And you know we will see what they can do this off-season but they definitely look good in the National League.  Devan Fink - the intrepid reporter who is behind Cover Those Bases. He is 13 years old. Thanks so much for being with us Mr. Fink.  Absolutely I really enjoyed it. 