 Voters in the states of Washington and Colorado have approved measures legalizing marijuana for recreational use. That means there should be lots of new licensed businesses opening in those states selling cannabis. These brand-new businesses are going to need banks to deposit their earnings. Chana Joffe-Walt with our Planet Money team has been wondering How is that going to work?  If you walk into any bank and say you are opening a business you will likely get a seat across from a guy like Todd Pietzsch at BECU in Washington state selling you...  We could certainly offer you a business checking account potentially a line of credit maybe even a loan - depending on what your needs are.  And what if I tell you that my business is to sell marijuana?  Then we would say unfortunately at this point in time we are unable to establish a commercial business account for you.  Pietzsch says the problem is that selling marijuana may be legal in Washington state but it is still a federal crime. He just does not know if that kind of account would get his bank in trouble. BECU is actually a credit union and I thought because they only operate in Washington state they may put more weight on state law than - you know - a big national bank would. But Pietzsch says we are federally insured. It is just too big a risk. So I went as local as I could find - Islanders Bank serving customers only in one tiny corner of Washington state.  We are on the San Juan Archipelago. We are the definition a small local bank  But Brad Williamson the CEO told me If we did open accounts for licensed marijuana businesses we just do not know whether the feds would come after us.  The risk to reward - I mean say the feds do not do anything. OK so you have got yourself a customer hopefully a good customer. But as a banker dang - you know? I mean you are on the hook if you are doing business with people that are doing illegal activity. I mean...  But it is not illegal now.  It is not illegal in Washington state.  And we are back where we started. Still a federal crime he says no. So we have Colorado and Washington state deciding they want legal marijuana. And those states will probably license hundreds - maybe thousands - of marijuana sellers growers distributors. What are these businesses going to do just operate all-cash like drug dealers? Which I guess they are. I asked a drug dealer How does that work?  Well you are going to want to figure out a good way to have money orders that sort of thing.  John Davis already has the problem that future marijuana businesses are going to have. He sells medical marijuana in Seattle. Medical marijuana is legal in Washington state. But John says he has a really hard time finding a bank willing to work with him - which he says causes all sorts of problems.  OK so with your vendors OK your vendors are supplying you with cannabis. You are paying that in cash. What that does - firstly - is it puts you at risk of robbery.  Payroll is a mess. It is impossible to order supplies Davis says - baggies lights display cases - without a business credit card. Sometimes PayPal can work but not for some things.  How do you pay your taxes? You know there is sales tax. You cannot go into the DOR - the Department of Revenue - and you know give them a wad of cash.  Davis has learned a bunch of tricks for operating an all-cash business. He teaches a course about this called Canibusiness. But in the end Davis says a marijuana seller's best option is really not a great option at all. Go to the bank and do what he did.  Just did not tell them the details of my business. When asked what we do - well we make money.   Davis says he does not feel great about toying with the truth. But he says I have a legitimate business. I need a bank. Chana Joffe-Walt NPR News.  