 While Rachel is away I get to play. I get to spend time with two of my favorite people here at NPR the Alt.Latino crew. Jasmine Garsd and Felix Contreras are the hosts of that weekly podcast. Buenos dias.  Buenos dias como estas?  Hola.  You guys have been doing a lot of interviews on your show so you saved some new music for us I hope.  Yes.  Felix what are we listening to? Sounds kind of perky.  OK yeah it is perky very perky. This is a guy named Rene Lopez. He made music in the '90s. He had some bands going in the '90s that is like funk and RandB. And more to the point he is one of these outposts of Latin soul OK? Latin soul - and in this case the song we are hearing now it is one of his jams of the month that he is sending out through the Internet every month. This is called Slide Into My Arms. It is classic '70s funk disco.    Slide baby slide into my arms into my arms.  Jasmine are you going to mellow things out or keep us...  No no I never mellow things out.   So I am living in Texas right now and Texas has this amazing music scene. And one of the things that is going on in Texas is something called screwmbia which is cumbia but chopped and screwed like really slow and dragged out. And the best band that is doing it - it is two DJs. Their name is Royal Highness. And a really cool story - I love this DJ duo so I have been messaging back and forth you know just like oh when can I meet you guys. I just got to drive out your studio. And the guy told me where he lives. He is my neighbor.  Oh my God. Oh no.   So I have been collecting their songs and this dude is cooking them right next door to me.  Oh wow.  This is Ay Papa.   .  I love it. Great great great. All right Felix what do you got for us next?  OK I am going to mellow things out.  All right.  OK so this is a new album from a band called Los Cenzontles.   And the album's called Alma Campirana. They are from the Bay Area. Their whole thing is they are doing a lot of traditional Mexican music. So much so that they also run a cultural center in the Bay Area where they can teach people young and old how to play traditional music. On this album the guitar player Eugene Rodriguez is playing a 12-string guitar which is not normally heard in traditional Mexican music. And what I did is bring in a corrido OK? And it is a song called Mejor Me Voy - better that I go. This is a serious tequila drinking sad sad song and it is a classic corrido.  Is there any other kind?   .  So I am now going to put my tequila glass away. I have been quietly drinking here just inspired me. And I am going to let you wrap it up Jasmine. What are we going to listen to after that?  I recently fell in love with this awesome Colombian RandB singer Gabriel Garzon-Montano. He is like a little mix of Prince Miguel. He is French-Colombian. He lives in New York. His album actually came out last year but I am just now getting into it. It is called Bishoune Alma Del Huila. And this song is called Keep On Running.    Keep on keep running running and running. Keep on keep running cannot seem to get away. Keep on keep running.  All right Jasmine Garsd and Felix Contreras are the hosts of NPR Music's Alt.Latino. Every week they bring us cool music interviews and in this case brokenhearted tears.  With tequila.  With tequila.  Do not forget.  Always with tequila. Thank you for joining us today guys.  Thank you.  Gracias.  De nada. 