 Donald Trump said yesterday he is actually winning despite polls suggesting otherwise. He called those polls phony. Still with 14 days to Election Day and some voting already taking place we decided to check in with a Trump supporter to talk about what the candidate has already accomplished even if he does not become president. Chris Buskirk is the publisher of the conservative blog American Greatness and he is a talk show radio host in Phoenix Ariz. He says Trump has raised important issues and also brought a new style to politics - things he believes will outlast the campaign. But Buskirk also says many in the Republican establishment are learning the wrong lesson from 2016.  The wrong lesson is to say that Donald Trump is a demagogue he is just pulling the wool over his supporters' eyes. That misses the point. The point of it is why are people supporting him? Did he fool everybody? I do not think so. I think that the lesson that they should be learning is not that the entirety of their electorate is foolish and easily misled. I think that they need to be looking at the issues that Donald Trump has raised that have resonated with voters.  There was this autopsy - this now-famous autopsy - done on the Republican Party in 2012 suggesting that they needed to really widen their appeal beyond white voters. And it seems that the party is just getting whiter and older with this presidential election. So I mean how do you argue against that notion?  Well first of all I think that the premise underlying that autopsy after 2012 I think it was done in good faith. But I think that some of the premises were just wrong in the sense that they tried to reduce politics to identity politics. And so as a result I think that they just wanted to copy what Democrats have done which is to break the electorate down into identifiable demographic subgroups and then tell each one of those subgroups what they want to hear. What Donald Trump has done is something totally different which is run an issues-based campaign. It is been wrapped up in rhetoric - overblown rhetoric - that some people are very uncomfortable with. But when you boil down his three main issues you are talking about border security and interspace foreign policy that skeptical foreign military intervention and pro-worker trade policy. That is something that is anathema to Republican elites. And so when they go back and look at 2012 they say well let us just look at the demographics.  You are suggesting that he is brought up issues that are very important to people and the Republican Party should take note of that. But I have also seen you quoted as suggesting that his style as a campaigner is something that other candidates might want to emulate going forward. What exactly do you mean by that?  Well his style is his own. And I think anybody who tries to emulate his style on a one-for-one basis I think is headed for disaster. The part of his retail politics that I would suggest politicians emulate is speaking directly to the people being authentic. Now for Donald Trump that means he is authentically a guy - a billionaire from Queens real estate developer who is been in reality TV forever. He is who he is. Like him hate him want to vote for him do not want to vote for him he just is what he is and he talks like that. And that is off-putting to a lot of people. It is also very attractive to other people because they see it as breaking out of the mold of politics as usual. And that is the place where I think that politicians should emulate Trump's political persona in the sense that they should just be who they are rely less on talking points and just tell people what they think.  Chris what would you tell someone who hears what you are saying and - and gets it a little bit but then says they just - they could not see emulating a person who has made comments that they find so completely offensive to women for example and they just cannot get past that? They are never going to even contemplate the notion of saying you know I might emulate Donald Trump if I run for office in the future.  Yeah I would say do not - do not do it. I mean it is pretty simple. I mean Donald Trump has said things that I would not say that most politicians would not say. I am not saying to say what he says. I am saying to say what you think. The interesting thing about his rhetoric is that - not that people approve of his rhetoric - and I am talking about his supporters here - but they are refreshed that somebody maybe is just making a mistake in the rhetoric sometimes rather than running it through six consultants and coming up with a statement that does not really mean anything.  Let me just ask you about one issue and that is immigration. I mean you brought it up when you talked about the borders. Was there any way - any other way that Donald Trump could have talked about that issue and accomplished some of the things you are speaking about? I mean he - he got a lot of support because there are a lot of voters in this country who care deeply about that issue. You want him to be authentic and so he spoke you know off the cuff. He made some comments you know using terms like rapists. And you know was - was there another way he could have done this better or is that just how Donald Trump would talk about immigration - he is going to offend people?  Both probably. Yeah I mean he could have talked about it in a different way. Whether he would have been more effective or not who knows - because it is wrapped up with - with the candidate and with the man. Donald Trump I think if we have learned anything is that he does have a very good sense for what a large portion of people are thinking what their issues are. You know maybe this goes back to his days in television as a businessman that he can sense what the audience wants and what is important to them. But by the same token he also operates in the no-filter zone. So if he is thinking it it just comes out. He obviously did not script a lot of these comments and he kind of shoots from the hip. So could he have talked about it a different way and still resonated with the base? I think so. I think other people can. I think when you talk about border security or immigration if you talk about two important things - one is the economics and jobs issues that are related to it but also about voter sovereignty. If you say you know the American people the electorate has a right to make a decision about who becomes a citizen and who does not I think that is a commonsense position.  People who do not like Donald Trump do you think they have legitimate reason or do you think many voters have judged him unfairly?  Well I mean who knows right? I mean when people say they do not like somebody who am I to say you do not like him for the wrong reason? When I say I support Donald Trump for president I cannot even tell you it is because I like him personally. I do not know him right? I look at the issues that he supports and try and think about what is going to be better for the country. I think when people hear him and react viscerally against what he is saying that is legitimate. But I would - I guess I would argue that anybody who is trying to make a decision on who to vote for for president needs to make a decision not on whether somebody is likeable or not but whether or not the policies they are going to implement are going to advance what they understand is the interest of this country and its citizens better or worse than the other candidates.  Chris real pleasure talking to you. Thank you so much.  Oh it is been a pleasure. Thanks for having me.  That was Chris Buskirk. He publishes the conservative blog American Greatness. 