 Good morning Tom.  Hi Mary Louise.  Hey there. So remind us exactly what this new policy means and how it played out actually on the field. I mean there were a lot of players very upset about this saying if you are going to make us play this way we might as well go play flag football. Is that what they had to do?  So yes. As I said they are still playing tackle football. And at least for one NFL Sunday it was football minus the motionless bodies lying on the field the worried teammates kneeling around a fallen player the medical staff loading a guy onto a stretcher. No players were penalized for illegal hits to the head in any of the 13 games.  James Harrison the Pittsburgh linebacker talked about one play where he was lining up a tackle on Miami's running back Ronnie Brown. And he said I had a chance to put my head in there and it looked like he was crouching down. I did not want to get a helmet-to-helmet hit. I did not put my face in there. And then he went down and luckily he did not scamper for another 10 to 15 yards.  Well and of course not just a one-weekend crackdown. I mean the NFL has acknowledged you know these violent hits and all of the head injuries and concussions are a major issue. Is the league talking about a long-term commitment to this new policy?  Oh yeah. I mean it says that this is the new policy. We are going to enforce the existing rules. And for one weekend they did not really have to because the players took it upon themselves to not break those rules on illegal hits. We will see going forward if what happened yesterday represents a real change then the NFL can move onto other things like say the Brett Favre investigation.  Well and that is enough to keep the league busy. What is the latest on that investigation?  Favre reportedly admitted leaving voicemails for the former New York Jets game hostess Jenn Sterger. She worked for the Jets in 2008 when Favre was the quarterback there. He reportedly denied sending Sterger inappropriate photos. The NFL hopes to wrap up the investigation on the next week to 10 days and we will see if it leads to a suspension for violating the NFL's personal conduct rules.  Well Tom before I let you go I want to pivot quickly and talk baseball for a second just because since we last talked to you the World Series is set. We have got the Texas Rangers and the San Francisco Giants. What do you think? Good series?  Good for baseball. Two new teams on this big a stage both pulled off upsets of favored opponents. The Rangers beat the Yankees. The Giants beat the Phillies. Texas in its first World Series. Giants in their first since 2002. They have not won since 1954 when they were the New York Giants. So a lot of people are looking forward to it. Your guess is as good as mine who is going to win this thing.  Thanks a lot.  My pleasure.   This is NPR News. 