 It is Friday which is when we hear from StoryCorps. And today we hear two veterans who met in a North Carolina courtroom and we hear about the bond they have formed. Joe Serna served three tours in Afghanistan as a Green Beret. After retiring he struggled to adapt to life back home and he violated probation on a DWI charge and came before Judge Lou Olivera an Army veteran. Judge Olivera sentenced Serna to one night in jail for violating his probation. Serna sat down with that judge for StoryCorps to talk about how his night in a jail cell brought back memories of war.  In Afghanistan it was me and three other guys on the truck really good friends. And I had an accident where our truck flipped all the way over into a river. And water came in and rose from the ankles to my waist eventually to my chin. And it was pitch black. The only air we had was now filled with diesel fumes. My partner said I cannot feel my lips. I cannot feel my arms. Then I heard him gasping. And I was the only survivor so I would have relived it over and over and over again in this cell by myself. It was confined space no windows and the door was solid. And there was just a small piece of glass you can see in and out and that was it. But I heard the door rattle. The jailer opens it up and I see you coming in.  You were sweating. You were shaking. You were wound tight.  When you walked in that all went away. And then when they locked the door I said to myself he is going to spend the night here. I have never seen this kind of act from anyone.  I knew your history and I talked to the chief jailer. I said can you put me in a cell with him? He was a veteran himself. He looked at me and he goes Judge give me five minutes. And he made it work.  We had a long conversation. A lot of it was about our families. And I felt the compassion.  We all mess up. We all fall short - and sometimes not the best husband or the best father or the best judge.  Truthfully that was the first time I ever opened up to trust another person. It was a game-changer. So thank you for being there for me. It means a lot to have someone in your position that understands.  That is that brotherhood the military. And I get something out of it too - helps me think about the things I have gone through the things I have seen in my military life. You are a brother and I want you to give back.  Well I thank you Judge.  You know I love you man.  I love you too.  Retired Green Beret Joe Serna talking with judge and retired Army military intelligence officer Lou Olivera. They spoke in Fayetteville N.C. And their conversation is part of Who We Are a series of StoryCorps conversations highlighting the values that make us American. 