 A flurry of handshakes and photo ops as President Biden attends his first in-person G-20.  There are huge challenges that face the leaders of the world's wealthiest countries - the pandemic the economy climate change.  I am Asma Khalid.  And I am Scott Simon and this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   The leaders of China and Russia are skipping the meetings in Rome. What that means for global cooperation coming up.  And in Russia a nationwide lockdown as COVID cases there surge even though it was the first country to roll out its own vaccine.  And here at home vaccinations continue for people ages 12 and up while younger kids remain at risk.  We see the kid that ends up in the hospital in the ICU or the kid who passes away from this. And that is someone's child.  But with new FDA authorization for children to receive the Pfizer vaccine protection is on the way.  So please stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   For the first time since the pandemic began the leaders of the 20 biggest economies are meeting in person.  Well not all of them. Two key players are missing from the G-20 summit in Rome.   I think you will see the U.S. and Europe front and center at this G-20 as we deal with the fact that neither the leaders of Russia nor China will be present in the room in Rome. And so that dynamic will be interesting to watch unfold.  That is Jake Sullivan President Biden's national security adviser talking to reporters on Air Force One on the way to Italy.  NPR White House correspondent Scott Detrow is in Rome and he joins us. Scott thanks so much for being with us.  Good morning Scott.  So when President Biden made his first foreign trip he got a warm reception from G-7 leaders who I think it is fair to say had some difficulties with getting along with his predecessor. How is President Biden now being received?  Right. Let us remember back in June that feeling was best summed up by French President Emmanuel Macron embracing Biden and saying it was good to have an American president that was quote part of the club again. Of course then in September Biden and Macron had a major conflict over a new defense deal with the U.K. and Australia. Not only was France left out of that deal. It led to the cancellation of an enormous contract to build submarines for Australia. Macron remember was so mad that he recalled France's ambassador to the United States. So yesterday before the summit began there was a big make-up chat after that fight. I was standing there as Biden's limo pulled up to the French embassy to the Vatican. Macron was standing on the steps smiling. He said Mr. President Joe how are you? So it was off to a good start. And then inside Biden was pretty contrite in honestly a way you do not see that often from a U.S. president.   I was under the impression that France had been informed long before that the deal was not going through. I honest to God did not know you had not been.  So Biden conceded that the whole thing was clumsy. That was the word he used. He and Macron both seemed very eager to move forward.  And what about the two major figures who are missing? Obviously Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping.  Right. These summits have agendas but a lot of the value for leaders is just to get face to face. And this time that is not going to happen with those two countries. That is really especially important with China. Biden has centered so much of his foreign policy around confronting China. And there is been a major rise in tensions between the countries lately. And you know we saw yesterday how much Biden does value one-on-one face-to-face relationships and that it is really going to matter more the next summit on this trip that big U.N. climate summit in Glasgow. China is the only country more important than the United States when it comes to reducing global emissions to get climate change under control.  What are you watching for absent the kind of drama of personalities?  Well I mean the G-20 focus is on the economy and there is so much to talk about. The pandemic is lingering. We have seen enormous problems in supply chains. Energy prices are now surging around the world. So the leaders are talking about all of those things. And in this trip Biden is also trying to finalize a major push that he has led to get most countries to agree to a new global minimum tax on corporations. If that went into effect it would be a big deal and it would cut back on companies dodging taxes by shifting operations from one country to another at least nominally.  And I understand President Biden will meet at least once more with President Macron right?  Yeah there is going to be a side meeting today with the U.S. France the U.K. and Germany. These are the key countries if you will recall in the Iran nuclear deal which the Trump administration pulled out of. Iran's negotiator has recently expressed interest in restarting that. So Biden's national security adviser Jake Sullivan says this is a meeting where those four leaders are just going to talk it over and see how they feel about this. They are all pretty skeptical but they think it is worth at least having an open mind about.  NPR's Scott Detrow in Rome. Scott thank you. Safe travels.  Ciao Scott.  And you can hear more of Scott Detrow's reporting from the White House by subscribing to the podcast that Scott Detrow and I co-host the NPR Politics Podcast. Subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.   It looks like most kids as young as 5 will just miss being fully vaccinated in time for Thanksgiving. That is because the Food and Drug Administration authorized the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for children aged 5 to 11 yesterday.  And there are just a few more steps before the shots ship out. NPR health policy correspondent Selena Simmons-Duffin joins us. Selena thanks so much for being with us.  Hi. Good morning Scott.  Good morning. This has been a long time coming for many parents. What do we know about the timeline?  Yeah. So right now vials with the lower-dose vaccine for kids are being loaded up for distribution around the country. They have little orange caps and orange-striped labels to be easily identified as the pediatric version. And White House COVID-19 Response Coordinator Jeff Zients spoke exclusively yesterday with NPR's Tamara Keith and here's what he said.  Within minutes of the FDA authorization teams started the work of packing up the vaccines to be shipped. They are packed with special smaller syringes dry ice and tracking labels.  He said 15 million initial doses are getting shipped out to 20000 different locations. But even though all of this is happening and FDA has done its part to authorize the vaccine shots will not be given out to kids until CDC weighs in and that is going to happen next week.  And walk us through that process if you could.  Right. So on Tuesday there is a meeting of outside scientists who advise the CDC on vaccines. They are going to consider who the vaccine should be recommended for. So should it be the whole group of kids in this age group or certain children with certain conditions? And they will also be considering broader public health issues like the role this age group has in community spread and concerns about school disruptions. After they take a vote on Tuesday the final step is CDC Director Rochelle Walensky making an official recommendation. And if all goes according to plan the rollout will then begin. However Zients told NPR yesterday it will not be instantaneous.  While we hope to see the first set of kids start to get vaccinated at the end of next week the bulk of vaccines will be in their locations by the week of November 8.  So just like for adults and teenagers this is a two-dose series given 21 days apart. So if you do the math - say the first shot is right on November 8 - the second shot would be November 29 so just a little bit after Thanksgiving.  Selena you followed the meetings and discussions at the FDA last week. What did you learn about how safe and effective the vaccine is?  Well the data that Pfizer submitted to the FDA shows the vaccine was 90.7 effective in preventing symptomatic COVID-19. And there were also no serious safety concerns in the trial which included over 4000 kids although I should say a very rare side effect like myocarditis would not show up in a study of this size. Still federal health officials who spoke to reporters yesterday say they are confident this vaccine is safe and effective for kids.  Selena a recent poll shows that only about a third of parents say they plan to vaccinate their children right away. What kind of concern is there about that?  Yeah. I mean uptake was slower than expected in the 12-to-17 age group when they became eligible and some public health officials think uptake might be slow in this group too. Acting FDA Commissioner Janet Woodcock was asked yesterday about parents who may be wanting to wait until other children have gotten vaccinated. And here's what she said.   As a parent and if I had young children in this age group I would get them vaccinated now. I would not want to take the risk that they would be one of the ones who would develop long uld develop multisystem inflammatory syndrome or have to be hospitalized from the virus.  So far more than 8000 kids in this age group have been hospitalized with COVID-19 and nearly 100 have died which is more than die from influenza each year. Pediatricians I have been talking to do recommend vaccination right away. For parents who are not sure yet who have questions they suggest connecting with a trusted medical professional to help think it all through.  NPR's Selena Simmons-Duffin thanks so much.  Thank you.   All throughout this pandemic as the coronavirus surged across Europe the United States and elsewhere Russia's infection numbers stayed curiously low.  Well that is changed. This week Russian health authorities reported that rates of infection and deaths are the highest since the start of the pandemic.  And this weekend in an effort to slow further spread of the virus Russia begins a nine-day quote nonworking period. NPR's Charles Maynes joins us now from Moscow with more. Thanks for being with us Charles.  Good morning.  So Charles it is a very interesting phrase to me - nonworking period. What does that mean exactly?  Well in theory it is a long week of paid leave a national timeout through November 7 in the hopes of getting these COVID numbers under control. We have had more than a thousand fatalities daily for the past week running...  Oh wow.  ...And surging infection rates as well and COVID wards are near capacity. So the government says this is for one reason. Not enough Russians are vaccinating. And in keeping with something of a tradition here President Vladimir Putin delivers the more popular message - take a week off you will still get paid spend time with your families and please get vaccinated - while telling regional authorities to do what it takes to get this under control. And that is where we have really seen these restrictions come into focus. It is - you know restaurants bars cafes gyms movie theaters are all closed in Moscow and St. Petersburg for example. Governors are introducing proof of vaccination requirements for access where fun still exists in places like say museums. And we have seen curfews and even police checks to keep unvaccinated people from getting in or out of areas in southern Russia. And important to note here that even though the nonworking period is through November 7 as I said governors and mayors have authority to extend those restrictions as long as it takes to get a handle on the virus. So there is a sense here that perhaps this is just the beginning.  So Charles you said that the government says part of this is because not enough Russians are vaccinating though last year Russia was the first country to approve a vaccine its own formula known as Sputnik V. That seemed to suggest the country was out in front dealing with the pandemic. So why did things take a turn?  Well for starters there is always been skepticism towards the sunnier numbers reported by the government. So from the beginning there was compelling evidence that Russia's death toll for example was much higher than the official count which is currently around 236000. But how did things get so bad? It goes back to Russian's reluctance to vaccinate. It is just over a third of the country fully inoculated so far. Russia's has had to contend with its own anti-vaxxer movement. People just do not trust science or the government. Certainly the rollout of Sputnik V did not help. It seemed highly political with the Kremlin claiming the world's first vaccine as you noted before it had even done the full clinical trials. And state media here has some responsibility as well. For a long time it played down the seriousness of the virus or promoted conspiracies that fed distrust of say Western vaccines. And that is really infected its own campaign for Sputnik V which independent studies show appears to be an effective vaccine. And so the result is you know Russians do not believe a good thing when they see it. As Moscow scientists put it to me it is like a cruel joke. You know Russia has become a country that produces and even exports a vaccine its own citizens do not want and they are dying because of it.  So if Russians have been so skeptical about this vaccine how are they reacting now to this order not to work from the government?  Well those who managed to book a ticket to say a resort in Egypt or Turkey popular tourist destinations here they are pretty happy about it. But that is just the privileged few who can enjoy the downtime. You know less happy are those who did vaccinate and are not getting many privileges for it at least not in Moscow. And also not happy are most private businesses and their employees because they have seen this before. In 2020 there was a nonwork period that became a nonwork several months. They were closed for business. And unlike the U.S. or Europe there really was no government bailout or not much of one. And then and now they are being told these businesses by the Kremlin to shutter their doors and pay their workers. And so the result is of course they are not. And that means Russians are not working not getting paid and also wondering how long it will last.  Charles are people abiding by this order? What does Moscow look like now at the start of this weekend?  Well it is been strangely quiet at least in my neighborhood - not a lot of cars on the road. It is beautiful weather today or certainly what passes for it in October. The sun's out. You know people are taking leisurely walks. But the city feels you know strangely abandoned. And it is important to note that life here has been kind of weirdly normal over the past six months behind us. But obviously with the surge in fatalities and these restrictions that sense of normalcy kind of feels like an illusion. It probably always was.  NPR's Charles Maynes in Moscow thanks so much.  Thank you.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday October 30 2021. I am Scott Simon.  And I am Asma Khalid. This Saturday edition of UP FIRST is produced by Andrew Craig Danny Hensel and Isabella Gomez Sarmiento.  It is edited by D. Parvaz Ed McNulty Ian Stewart Melissa Gray and Ravenna Koenig.  Our directors are Hiba Ahmad and Michael Radcliff. Our technical directors are Brian Jarboe and Stacey Abbott with engineering support from Daniel Shukhin and Kwesi Lee.  Evie Stone is the supervising editor. Sarah Oliver is the executive producer and Jim Kane our deputy managing editor.  UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week.  And now there is more smart reporting and compelling guests on the radio.  So listen to Weekend Edition every Saturday and Sunday morning. Find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  