 Inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency have for the first time visited a heretofore secret uranium enrichment facility in Iran. The facility has been under construction for more than three years but its existence was only disclosed in September. The Iranians say they intended to make its existence public all along but the U.S. government believes it may be part of a wider clandestine nuclear weapons program in Iran. NPR's Mike Shuster joins us now. And Mike first of all what are the IAEA inspectors hoping to achieve?  Well they have already sent a small group of inspectors to the facility which is south of Tehran about 20 miles north of the city of Qom. It is not that far from Tehran. And what they want to do is now get down on paper establish a public record about what this facility is all about. Until today no inspectors and no outside eyes have actually seen this facility it is been under construction for several years and we did not really know about it publicly until September. The Iranians say that this is a uranium-enrichment facility for about 3000 gas centrifuges. That is a relatively small-scale centrifuge facility especially when compared to the one that is known about the one that IAEA inspectors regularly visit and make reports about. There are 8000 gas centrifuges there and the Iranians want to build a much larger industrial-scale facility there. So the inspectors will see how far along this construction is what special equipment may have been put in it what is the nature of the centrifuges that are being used? They could be more advanced than the Natanz facility is. There is a great deal of information to be learned and the inspectors will be there will make more than one visit. They are going to stay in Iran apparently for several days and make more than one visit to the facility.  The facility as you said under construction on a military base near the city of Qom in a mountain tunnel. Now why all of the secrecy?  Well the Iranians have hinted that their building it in secret that they would intended to disclose its existence all along but they were building it in secret as a backup because there is been a lot of talk about attacking Iran's nuclear facilities over the last few years and some people think that they were building it as a backup so that if there were an attack they would have a second facility. There are others who believe that this is part of a wider and deeper clandestine program to enrich uranium and ultimately to build a nuclear weapon and that could be the case as well but there is no certainty about that.  A little context. This inspection follows talks with Iran this past week on a deal to ship out much of its uranium stockpile to Russia and France. Tell us a little more about that because Iran was supposed to make a final decision on this on Friday but it did not happen.  No Iran was supposed to sign off on this deal. The details of the deal there were two-and-a-half days of talks in Vienna at the headquarters of the International Atomic Energy Agency to try to nail this down and on Friday Iran balked. It did not nail it down. Iranian officials said they need more time and that they would perhaps finally sign off on this in the coming week. But this is an interesting scheme whereby Iran's - most of Iran's stockpile of low-enriched uranium we are talking about more than a ton of low-enriched uranium would be shipped to Russia and then to France for processing and then shipped back to Iran to be used at a research reactor in Tehran that makes medical isotopes that the Iranians say are running out of fuel. This was a good plan for everybody. This is something that the White House proposed and it looked like Iran was going to go for the deal. Now there is not a great deal of certainty about it and we have to wait this week for a few days to see what is going to happen.  NPR's Mike Shuster. Thanks Mike.  You are welcome Liane. 