 It is a good morning to be a Texas Rangers fan. The Rangers defeated the Yankees last night. And I am not sure that defeated even quite takes this in Mike Pesca.  Yes. It was close and then it was not close - in a big way.  Eight to nothing was the final score. And the big story was the Rangers pitcher Cliff Lee - amazing.  But this was a great great pitching performance.  Nolan Ryan - the head of the Texas Rangers now and a guy who knows something about pitching himself being a Hall of Famer - described him if I am not mistaken as the most consistent pitcher he would ever seen.  Yeah. And this is a postseason where we have seen Roy Halladay come within one walk of a perfect game. He had a no-hitter. We saw Tim Lincecum strike out 14. And last night we saw Cliff Lee strike out 13. He only allowed two hits and one walk. And that first walk which broke up his perfect game that was the first walk of his postseason. So the best pitchers are just dominating this postseason.  Totally overshadowed Andy Pettitte of the Yankees last night.  Andy Pettitte is a guy who is been pitching for 16 seasons and he is never had a losing season. And every year you say you know he is 37. He is 38. Will this be the year he can no longer deliver in the postseason? And it never is. Andy Pettitte had a very very good performance but he was up against genius last night.  OK. Let us remember the basics here. Now the Rangers are up 2-1 in this series. The winner of the series goes on to the World Series. And do the Yankees still have a chance to pull this out even though they are down 2-1?  You have to go back to 1937 when a guy named Bump Hadley had an E.R.A. of 5.30 to find an E.R.A. slightly higher than A.J. Burnett for a Yankee starter. And Bump Hadley did pitch a World Series game. He wound up getting shelled. But the Yankees won every other game in that World Series anyway.  Although you have to admit A.J. Burnett is nearly as good a name as Bump Hadley so he is got a shot.  He as not no Bump Hadley. He as not no Catfish Hunter.  OK. So that is the America League Championship Series. The National League Championship Series is tied one game apiece heading into Game 3 now. The Phillies and the San Francisco Giants what are you looking for there?  Well let us go back to talking about good pitching because Matt Cain for the Giants is a very good pitcher. And Cole Hamels has been excellent for the Phillies. And if you remember a couple years ago when the Phillies won the World Series Cole Hamels was the World Series MVP. So if they stay true to form this will be another gem as the series moves out to San Francisco.  Mike Pesca always a pleasure to talk with you.  I enjoyed it too.  That is NPR's sports correspondent Mike Pesca. 