 OK three brand-new cable channels all share the same problem. How do you persuade 20-somethings to look up from their phones long enough to gaze at an old-fashioned regular TV? In Los Angeles NPR's Neda Ulaby visited one of the channels that is trying to do that.  This could be the set of any cable news show about to go live.    Three minutes.  As character We have got three minutes to air.  As character Holy wow.  The show is called Take Part Live. The channel is called Pivot. It is going for a super-specific audience socially conscious people born after 1980 and before 2001 the generation known as millennials. To lure them this new show is trying very hard to be funny.   OK. So it is kind of going for a Daily Show Jr. vibe. Kent Reese runs Pivot's scheduling and marketing. They are trying to sell TV ads to the biggest generational group in the country. By some counts millennials outnumber baby boomers. Pivot thinks it can reach up to 30 million of them who care about politics and social issues. So it signed up people like John McCain's daughter Megan McCain with a conservative-tipping talk show. And it is experimenting with research about how millennials watch TV.  We know that our audience is really into binge-watching. So they will watch multiple episodes in a row. And so the night that the network launched we aired all six episodes of Josh's show - all in a row.  Josh is Josh Thomas. He is 26 and Australian.   Pivot bought the rights to air a comedy series he created called Please Like Me. It is often described as a gay Australian version of Girls the show on HBO. It is about an awkward 20-something who like so many millennials still lives with his mom.   Maybe you are thinking that binge-watching or Daily Show knock-offs are not unique to millennials. But for Pivot to air six episodes in a row as its very first move was says Reese a statement.  This is what this audience wants. This is our opportunity through our programming to express back to them that we get it and that we are listening and that we want them to consume content from us in the same way they are doing it in other places.  The question is whether those demographics have moved beyond television.  Professor David Thorburn studies media in transition. He teaches at MIT. I wondered if he thought his students who fall completely into Pivot's dream demographic will watch it.  No I do not think so.  His students tend not to have TVs. They do not pay for cable. They watch Netflix on their phones or stream shows on sites that are not completely legit. But when it comes to ads on television there is no audience more desirable than millennials so these new channels are trying to divide them up. Pivot's going for the green socially conscious crowd. Univision wants the young English-speaking Latinos so it is starting a channel called Fusion later this month. One for music lovers called Revolt launches today. When you look it up online it is clear Revolt is angling to become the second coming of MTV. But MTV-style music videos strike David Thorburn as...  Very old-fashioned. Is this really a time when today's younger people will tune into an MTV?  I mean they have got YouTube right? Wrong says Val Boreland. She is in charge of Revolt's programming. She insists millennials in the year 2013 still need their MTV sort of.  We do not use the word VJ 'ecause that is old-school. But we will have VJ equivalents.  Oh so that is completely new. Still Revolt's Twitter account is more or less a digital VJ. It is hyped the musician Lorde since June.   Now she is just breaking. We are going to break those people.  Revolt was founded by Sean Combs. He is so famous as a rapper and mogul his team was worried that would inflate expectations for the channel. So it did something increasingly common - starting not on TV but with videos posted on Twitter and Instagram.  We have not done any marketing and we have a successful social media platform.  Propping up old technology with new technology is says Professor David Thorburn a bit of a paradox.  Maybe they should just look to the new technologies and stop pretending that the older one will be helpful to them.  But to do that they would have to ignore something else - that nothing ka-chings like ads on TV. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 