 The book also includes interviews with five presidential photographers. Among them David Hume Kennerly who worked under Gerald Ford. And Mr. Kennerly joins us from NPR West. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  Also interviewed is David Valdez the man who photographed for the first President Bush in the White House and he is at member station KUT in Austin Texas. Thank you for joining us.  Howdy you all.  Mr. Valdez as long as we are talking pajamas you have this wonderful picture of George Herbert Walker and Mrs. Bush. They are lounging in bed you have got grandchildren scampering around them. How did you manage to get the president comfortable enough to shoot in his bedroom?  In that particular situation it was Kennebunkport Maine where they have a vacation home. And Barbara Bush suggested that I come over to their house about 00 in the morning the next morning. And I went over there and I had free access to the house. So I just walked in and there they were in bed. And so I just took a handful of photos.  If I could get you David Kennerly for a moment because you have a very domestic moment. President Ford he is in a shirt and slacks and he is in the kitchen he is talking to his wife Betty. She is eating breakfast in her bathrobe and she is wearing a shower cap. Why did she let you publish this photograph? Did not she want to slug you?  And Mrs. Ford just had a great sense of humor and both of them did not suffer from vanity. And I do not think I ever held off taking a picture because I thought it would not make him look good. And they totally understood. There were no ground rules and affection should never get in the way of a good picture.  The following page has a picture of Betty Ford and it is the day before the Carter family moved into the White House. And she said that she would always wanted to dance on the Cabinet Room table. And she jumps up and strikes a pose.  Mrs. Ford was a Martha Graham dancer and she struck that pose and it was an amazing moment. I mean you do not see that kind of thing. And she thought of it. I did not ask her to do it.  David how do you go about shooting then? Are you always firing away?  I would work 14 16 hours a day. I was in every meeting in the Oval Office whenever I wanted to be. So many things happened that were not on the schedule. But I am not just firing away like a madman. I mean somebody asked me how many pictures do you take to get a good one? It is one you know whether you take one or 100 to get to it.  David Valdez were you ever asked not to shoot a certain scene or a certain photograph?  No but we did when he was vice president when the Shuttle Challenger went down and President Reagan asked him to go down to meet with the families that day. And we are walking down the hallway to meet the families literally their family members had just died and they watched it. And so just kind of without really a spoken word I could tell that he was saying let us back off this time. And so I did.  Let me ask you about what the author of this book Jon Bredar writes. He is writing this is not photojournalism as much as it is photo history. When you were taking pictures as White House photographers did you worry you were going to miss something because this is the historical record?  But anyway it is all about the moment about the true picture of what is going on. And you could call it propaganda or whatever you want to call it but I think David and I and the rest of us have all been in it for the history and the record. A hundred years from now will really show what it was like and who the people and the players were.  Former White House photographers David Kennerly and David Valdez. Their work appears in the book The President's Photographer by John Bredar. An accompanying television special will be broadcast on PBS November 24th. Thank you both gentlemen.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  And to see a gallery of presidential pics go to our website NPR.org. 