 Run River North is a Los Angeles-based band that is gotten a few breaks recently. Last year the musicians produced a music video inside their old Honda. And the video went viral - straight to the carmaker. The company rewarded the group with a performance on Jimmy Kimmel Live. Now Doualy Xaykaothao has the story of the band's journey from late-night TV to getting signed.  Even before the band landed on Jimmy Kimmel Run River North had already been approached by a major label.  We got flown out to New York and wined and dined. We did not even know that still happened.  Alex Hwang is the band's lead singer and songwriter.  And then Jimmy Kimmel happened. And we were like we are going to get signed. And then we heard a lot of no's actually. Like all the major labels that we had talked to all of a sudden just for whatever reasons we are sorry but we are going to move on.  So he and his five bandmates went into hermit mode songwriting and jamming in between full-time jobs or full-time classes at Cal State. They built a local following and sold out L.A.'s Troubadour. They even started making a little money from iTunes downloads - songs the band recorded on their own.    Thought it nice to dream to be a beetle. I think twice I do not want to be a bug. The story untold has already been sold to the highest bidder...  A few gigs later an offer came - from Canada.  My sort of biggest litmus test is do we love it or do we like it. Do we believe in them as people? And as corny as that sounds that means an awful lot to me.  Terry McBride is the CEO of Nettwerk the label that signed the band fun. He says he started listening to Run River North last winter when his 84-year-old father was dying of Lou Gehrig's disease.  A lot of the lyrics being about parents about past really really resonated with me and that got me deeper into it and then I found myself humming melodies quite a lot. And usually when that happens I will do anything to try and get in business with that artist.    Growing up child is just a matter of time for given all you have got so will not you dance under the sun. Growing old feels like you are giving up your soul. I would rather give it freely to the ones that I call home...  The musicians call San Fernando Valley home just half an hour north of downtown L.A. Theirs is a tight-knit community bounded by faith which is why they rehearse weekly at Valley Korean United Methodist Church.  Your monitor is not coming up.  Check check.  Each practice begins with a prayer.  God I thank you that you are so mindful and faithful of each one of us and...  Sally Kang plays keyboard and sings.  We trust in you God that you align things to what you have ready for us and...  The band first formed at the church after Alex Huang passed around a few of his songs to get feedback.  Like it was not in the audition process like you have to be a Korean-American second generation Christian person to be in this band. But because that is the people that responded I wanted to use that as a platform to kind of gather up the stories and the stories just so happen to be how to live a Christian life as an Asian person in Los Angeles having immigrant parents.    They are walking heavy to the beat of a broken drum. Digging for worth in a land under a foreign sun. The children call bitter words of a strange tongue. Hearts down they are walking heavy until the dying's done oh oh oh - oh...  Run River North does not consider itself a Christian band with a message. They just want to play music says violinist Jennifer Rim.  We just want to share our stories telling people that we have our bad side and good sides. And that is what I love about our lyrics. It is very honest.    Oh here the monster's calling home now. No they do not want to be alone but the closet they keep closed swallow the key so that nobody nobody knows how they be....  The musicians packed up their gear last month and left Southern California for Seattle to work on their debut album with Phil Ek producer of The Shins Fleet Foxes and Built to Spill. Guitarist Daniel Chae says playing music for a living is something none of his bandmates expected to be doing a year ago. And neither did their parents.  I think it is safe to say that all of our parents do not have white-collar jobs. My dad worked at Wienerschnitzel - that was his first job when he came here - and then he owned a liquor store. Our parents sacrificed their lives for us and I think that is why there is such a strong sense of family in each of us. There is that expectation of because we did this for you we hope you have a good job we hope you can live the American dream and we finally find that in music now.  Run River North's debut album will finally be out early next year. For NPR News I am Doualy Xaykaothao in Los Angeles.    So I will fight to keep your fire burning...  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 