 So the American people are in the middle of a big decision.  Voting is happening now.  That is right. And on the ballot the fat bears of Katmai National Park.   Well let us talk about Fat Bear Week folks. It is the fattest week of the year.  That is Ranger Mike Fitz who livestreamed the Alaska park's March Madness-style brackets. Instead of basketball teams though these contestants are bears specifically bears who have gained a massive amount of weight over the past few months to prepare for hibernation.  Yeah. Online voting to select the park's most corpulent brown bear started Tuesday and runs through next week but there are some early favorites like Bear 747.   He is an absolute unit in the truest sense of the meme - a real tank a giant among bears. And he is the largest bear I have ever seen and likely one of the largest bears alive on Earth.  Wow. So voter Emily Bear  - no relation - lives in Madison Wis. She is also a 747 fan.  He is a big boy yeah. And he has the angle that I like where you can see his little tail .  Seven-four-seven is not the only chubby bear with a fan club. There is also the pear-shaped 32 nicknamed Chunk.   What are you going to do really when Chunk and all of his Chunkomaniacs  run wild on you?  And there is 435 Holly. She is the reigning champ actually - last year's fattest bear - a favorite of Ranger Naomi Boak.  The queen of corpulence - look at the difference between her in the beginning of the season and the end of the season. This girl got fat.  Voter Samantha Manictola  is a 435 Holly fan too. Like many hardcore bear weak fans she bases her vote purely on which bear in the matchup looks fatter.  It is uncomplicated joy. It is just the bears are fat and that is nice. And like as a human who is also fat it is just really nice to see all of these memes that are like hey fatness is nice and like we enjoy this and this is great for everybody.  The fattest bear of them all will take this year's crown on Wednesday.  And then pretty soon these chunky bears will use the fat they have gained this summer and fall to make it through a long winter's nap. Oh my goodness bears I wish I could join you there.  