 In baseball just four teams are left standing and running hitting scoring and spitting. The Kansas City Royals beat the Baltimore Orioles last night in the 10th inning. And tonight the Saint Louis Cardinals will take on the San Francisco Giants. NPR's Tom Goldman joins us. Tom thanks for being with us.  Excuse me. Oh yeah go ahead just spitting.   Well we are talking baseball.  A little chew.  Oh yeah. Does the K.C. win say anything about the rest of the series potentially?  Oh oh absolutely not. Predicting is pretty much a dead art form Scott in this baseball postseason. Kansas City the worst home-run-hitting team in the regular season - with 95 - had three last night giving the Royals seven for the postseason tied for the most among the remaining teams. Baltimore the big boppers hit the most during the regular season - 211. The O's had none last night. It is apparent in this postseason especially that what happens in the regular season stays in the regular season.  .  And a lot of fans are realizing that and sadly for some teams that have been eliminated it appears their managers are realizing that as well.  Well is there an art if you please to managing in the postseason that it must be said a couple managers may have missed?   Seems to be. You know after the game in which the San Francisco Giants eliminated the Washington Nationals which you know all about from the postseason rookie manager Matt Williams was asked why he used the relief pitchers he did. And he said he followed a formula that worked well in the regular season. The Nats had a great regular season of course most wins in the National League. But postseason baseball is about situations that can determine the difference between winning and losing and making decisions in those moments that might not fit the normal routine - you know playing a player who you might not usually play but he is best for that moment. And guys like Bruce Bochy for San Francisco and to a lesser extent Mike Matheny with St. Louis have figured that out. And it is a big reason why for the fifth straight year either San Francisco or St. Louis will represent the National League in the World Series. But Scott also a very big reason - those two team's hitters are hitting and their pitchers are pitching. Let us not forget that is part of a winning formula as well.  Yeah quickly any team have the edge going into that series tonight between San Francisco and St. Louis?  I would merely be predicting Scott. I cannot predict.  Oh right of course.  It is two playoff-savvy teams doing the right things at the right time. And it should be good smart tense baseball.  They know how to win Tom Goldman do not they?  That is right.  And speaking of which - Landon Donovan forward for the U.S. men's soccer team with his last game last night. How did it go?  He played about 40 minutes in the first half in a 1-1 U.S. draw with Ecuador - love those draws. He had a couple of bona fide shots on goal which just missed so the soccer gods apparently were not going to let the perfect ending happen. When he was substituted out he came to the sideline had an awkward half-hug with Coach Jurgen Kilnsmann the guy who left Landon Donovan off the World Cup team this summer but a nice send-off. He got the kind of rousing reception he deserved as the face of men's soccer in this country for the last 15 years.  Yeah NPR's Tom Goldman. Thanks very much.  You are welcome Scott. 