 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. Wake up. It is time for sports.   Nature and the St. Louis Cardinals find a way. The Cards were a strike away from flying home for the winter but staged a four-run ninth-inning last-minute one-tick-to doomsday rally to defeat the young and gifted Washington Nationals 9-7 late last night to win the National League Division Series. Earlier CC Sabathia kept the Baltimore Orioles in handcuffs. No I saw it. Really they were handcuffed. As the Yankees won the American League Division Series 3-1. The League Championship Series begin later today. Howard Bryant senior writer for ESPN.com and ESPN the Magazine joins us now from New England Public Radio. Good morning Howard.  Good morning Scott. How are you doing?  I am fine thanks. That was a breathtaking ninth inning. The Cardinals find a way.  It is incredible. And once again it explains that at its highest level when played in the most important games there is no sport like baseball. That is nothing like it. There is no stoppage time. There is no taking a knee. There is no running out the clock or . You have to get the 27th out. And the Nationals last night were a strike away. And Drew Storen the closer had five pitches where all he needed was one strike all he needed was one more pitch. And he could not get it. And the Cardinals you are down two runs the season's over. And they did it again. This is the sixth straight elimination game that they have won. They just had that look about them. And there is going to be a lot of talk about how this happened. But the bottom line once again is in baseball you have got to finish the deal. And nobody is tougher to finish off than the St. Louis Cardinals. We saw it last year at the World Series.  Yeah. They have a genius for winning close games I do not mind saying.  Very tough team. That is the thing. They are a very tough baseball club.  Is this going to bring back questions as to whether or not Stephen Strasburg should have been on the bench should have been rested  good as they say?  Well it should. It should. I mean let us face it. There are a couple of different things at work. Maybe the Nationals are not in a 1-2 hole if Strasberg's there. Maybe there is coming home with two chances to win. You know maybe the Cardinals beat Strasberg the same way they beat Jordan Zimmermann in game two. I do not know. I mean you cannot say that for certain. What you can say is did the Washington Nationals walking into their first playoff in their history did they put their best team on the field? And the answer is clearly no. And because that answer is no then they have a lot to answer for. That said you have to give the credit to the St. Louis Cardinals. Gio Gonzalez was on the mound last night with a 6-0 lead and he could not get out of the fifth inning. Stephen Strasberg might not have been able to help that. Or maybe he would have been the victim of a great Cardinals comeback. But once again there are baseball gods out there. And the baseball gods say you put your best team on the field when you have a chance because these chances do not come very often.  Let me ask about the Yankees game. CC Sabathia was masterful. Four hits I believe is all he let them have. When that twilight game between the Yanks and the O's began Alex Rodriguez was on the bench. Is - not just metaphorically - is this twilight for his career too?  Oh no question. No question. You are looking at one of the greatest players of all time. Alex Rodriguez has been a signature player for 17 years. And at some point they all have to say goodbye. And one of the biggest signs obviously is when you can no longer be what you were in these clutch moments. And no matter what the Yankees do this season they will never be forgotten that Alex Rodriguez was pinch hit for in the ninth inning of two close games at Yankee Stadium. It is time. And whether or not he is going to retire no matter what he does he is not going to be the Alex Rodriguez of our memories. And therefore everyone is going to have to view him differently including his team which owes him five more years and over 100 million in terms of contracts.  In the 30 seconds we have left Tigers-Yankees begin a league championship series tonight. What do you see?  I see a lot - I see two teams really going at it because their two best pitchers - C.C. Sabathia and Justin Verlander you are not going to see them until game two or game three maybe. So I think it is just going to be a really tight compact schedule. It is going to be a close game. Someone's just going to have to grind this out. And let us also not forget the San Francisco Giants who play tomorrow night as well. This is a great great time of year.  OK. Howard Bryant of ESPN.com and ESPN the Magazine. And you will be covering these games. Thanks so much.  Take it easy Scott.  Thanks so much Howard. 