 One by one Venezuelans called out their president yesterday in testimony before the country's National Assembly. Nicolas Maduro they said has done nothing to address one of the world's greatest economic catastrophes that followed years of socialist rule by previous president Hugo Chavez. Venezuela has lots of oil but it is unable to even feed its people or provide medicine. Freelance reporter Ana Vanessa Herrero is covering this story from the capital Caracas and she joined us via Skype. Good morning.  Thanks for having me.  Now you were at the National Assembly when those folks testified there. Who are they - the opposition or are they just regular folk?  No no. They are regular people. They are the faces of the crisis the different aspects of the crisis - violence lack of medicines lack of food. Young people saying that they do not want to get out of Venezuela - they do not want to leave Venezuela. They want to keep here studying but they cannot. So everyone was there trying to show what the government they say do not see. And the most important thing a really interesting thing is that every single one of them that you would see and say OK this is the people that would vote for Chavez like 10 years ago are saying right now - hey Nicolas Maduro please you have to go. Please let us rebuild this country.  You live in Caracas. Tell us what it is like to buy say groceries.  Well it is - it is not an easy task. First you have to find a product you want. And if you do find it then you are going to have to deal with the prices. For example I went to the supermarket to get some things for a salad - just a salad - and it turned out being like 35. When your minimum wage is 27 a month then you get a pretty clear image of the crisis we are living.  President Maduro yesterday announced he was raising the minimum wage by 40 percent. That sounds like a lot except the wages are so low. Did that satisfy anyone?  Well actually it does not because of the inflation. We have inflation over 600 percent. It is madness.  Earlier this week President Maduro flew to the Vatican. Pope Francis has tried to organize talks between him and the opposition. Where does that stand?  Well it was not really a surprise for us and for the entire country because this is the second time the Vatican's trying to do this. They did say the government and the opposition were starting a dialogue but then the opposition rejected this dialogue and called for big big protests. And then on Wednesday they called for these 12-hour strike. So Sunday is the day where supposedly the government and the opposition are going to meet. We are going to wait to see if that is happening because the opposition said it clearly we are not going to dialogue.  Ana Vanessa Herrero is a journalist in Caracas Venezuela. Thanks very much for talking with us.  Thank you so much. 