 You know many of us would just jump at the chance to improve our memories right? That would be amazing. Our ability to recall information can be really important to our performance in so many parts of life everything from tests in school to the ability to master a new task at work. Well so scientists are experimenting with ways to get our minds to better hold on to the things that we have just learned. And NPR's Elise Hu got to try one of these experiments for our series about emerging technologies called Future You. Hi Elise.  Hey. Good morning.  So what exactly did you do here?  Well the idea behind this David is that there is something going on in our brains while we are sleeping that helps us hang onto our memories. Our brains essentially create narratives for what happened during the day or new ideas that we were exposed to while we are in deep sleep. So this experiment what it does is it stimulates the brains of subjects they are studying while they are asleep. Now so far this research is still in the labs and it is not commercially available but the results have been really promising. The experiment involves applying noninvasive electrical stimulation to our brains.  Noninvasive electrical stimulation - what is that?  So it is kind of a brain cap that you wear while you are sleeping. I tried this out at the University of New Mexico where I went to visit the sleep lab.  OK.  The researchers there introduced me to this experiment. I have to learn how to play a custom video game. And then at night I would sleep. I would wake up and then play the video game again. And the researchers test to see how much my performance improves. In other words they test your memory of how to play a game.  And why did they say video games is the best way to work on your memory?  This all has to do with why it was designed in the first place. The U.S. military's research arm DARPA funded this study with the original purpose of wanting to improve soldiers' performance on the battlefield. So the task I learned was a VR game where you wear that VR headset that involves spotting and shooting targets. Just to review if I get it it will turn green and then if I miss a human target then it grunts.  Yep.  So I played this game and I was tested after one night of sleep without any sort of brain stimulation. And then the second night they zapped my brain while I was asleep and then I played the game again.  OK. Can we talk about zapping? What is zapping?  OK. So the researchers put a brain cap on my head.  Shower cap with wires coming off...  Exactly. And I have worn a series of these in the Future You series. But I am wearing that this time when I am sleeping. And when I reach that deep stage of sleep which is when your mind starts really consolidating memories and constructing narratives for what happened to you the research then tracked my brainwaves and then sent electricity at the same speed as my own brainwaves back to my brain. And this is a closed loop that is supposed to improve that process of memory consolidation that already naturally occurs. So the next morning when tested again many subjects showed as much as a 30 improvement in recognizing and remembering targets in the VR game.  But how do they know that you are not just getting better at the game because you are playing the game more?  Exactly. Well the researchers adjust the scores to account for any improvements just from practice.  OK. So what are the implications of this? I mean it is just one kind of study with a video game. Your series Future You is all about imagining how all this technology advancement could change our lives in 30 years. So if they can successfully start zapping our brains when we are asleep and it improves our memory I mean that feels like it could be a big deal.  I asked exactly that question to the lead psychologist on this research at the University of New Mexico. His name is Vince Clarke.  I think we will get better at being able to enhance people's ability to learn also things like pay attention doing sports and medical treatments like reducing pain.  But since we are imagining the future here I also asked him what the downside of this kind of technology might be.  Sure.  For example if your memories can be boosted could they also be erased? And here's what Vince Clark said about that.  You could force someone to have a memory that was not really true somehow although it would take a lot more work than - what we are doing now is just enhancing a natural process. We are not really manipulating details about what you learned and all.  That sounds bad.  I had the same reaction. But the researchers tell me that we do not have to worry about this for a long while because it is like that quote that is often attributed to the sci-fi writer William Gibson. The future has already arrived it is just not evenly distributed.  That is a perfect quote with which to say goodbye to Elise Hu. Thanks Elise.  You bet.  And you can see this full experiment involving brain zapping and everything else for yourself as part of our original video series Future You with Elise Hu. You can find it at npr.orgfutureyou or just go to NPR's YouTube channel. 