 This is PR News. I am Rachel Martin. House-sitting is a delicate kind of chore. It means inhabiting someone else's home - their personal space watching over their stuff - maybe their plants their animals - and employing the Boy Scouts' creed to leave no trace so when the owners come home everything is just as it was when they left. That is pretty much the opposite of what happens in Will Wiles' debut novel. It is called Care of Wooden Floors. It is the story of an already strained friendship pushed to the breaking point by a house-sitting favor gone terribly terribly wrong. The author Will Wiles joins us now from the studios of the BBC in London. Thanks so much for talking with us.  Oh thank you for having me.  So let us just lay out the basics of the plot line first. The main character is this British guy who is a little bit lost in his life. And he agrees to house-sit for his former college roommate Oscar in a flat in an anonymous Eastern European city right?  That is right yeah.  And the narrator ends up learning a lot about Oscar by being in his home. I mean he knows that this is a guy who likes order and structure in his life. But what does he learn about his friend by physically inhabiting his space?  Well when we go into someone's flat - or house we are really seeing an extraordinary insight into their life. I mean you know it is the one corner of the planet that you have really been able to structure as you wanted it. It is set up the way that pleases you. And what you do with your home - where you choose to live and how you use the space - tells you an immense amount about a character. You know - I mean the obvious example is just browsing through someone's bookshelves but also whether someone is comfortable with things being untidy or whether they keep everything scrupulously tidy. You know all these things give extraordinary insights into character.  He - the narrator - has been given explicit instructions on how to take care of a lot of things in the house but specifically the wooden floors. What is the deal with these floors? Why are they so important to Oscar?  Well they are very expensive basically. But the house is full of a lot of very expensive things very expensive nice things. But the floors I think they are - when he was decorating the house they were the basis of it. They were what you started with the baseline for setting up his perfect home. He put in the floors first and then everything else came later. So I think Oscar feels that the floors are the foundation of the perfection he is managed to achieve in his home in this beautiful minimalist environment. But you know we do not think very much about what supports us what is underfoot. What is underfoot is more important than we think it is.  We should also note that Oscar's personal life is taking a downward turn. He is in California where he is trying to work things out with his wife which is why he needs the house-sitter in the first place. And he is trying to maintain order to the best degree that he can in his life by giving these instructions to his friend about the flat. And he does so with these notes that he is left all around the apartment.  Well everytime he finds a new note it is as if Oscar has anticipated something that he is doing. If he is looking for cleaning products to clean something then the note - where he finds it - will be berating him for damaging something or getting it dirty if you see what I mean. It is anticipated why he might be looking for something. But also Oscar's a bit of a control freak a neat Nazi. And you know as you said that is why he is leaving all these notes everywhere. I mean when I started writing the book I was sharing a flat and obviously the note is the passive-aggressive bombshell of flat-sharing. You know...   I had a roommate I have to admit who was a note-writer yeah.  Exactly. You know it is the weapon of mass destruction of sharing your home. And there is a very bossy sort of know-it-all tone to the notes that really gets under the narrator's skin very quickly.  The reason that the narrator has come to this place was to free himself of some kind of weight that is holding him from tapping into his potential as a writer. Does he achieve that? Is this new geography liberating for him in any way despite all the shenanigans that transpire?  Well in an unusual and dark way there is a kind of element of liberation towards the end. But I think I will have to leave - the readers to discover that. He - no I mean that is kind of like essentially the moral of the story - if there is one. It is the idea that the perfect place will not make you the perfect person because he thinks that if he can you know - and I think a lot of people think that you know - if they had the perfect you know space to work then - you know they would be able to achieve so much more. You know if the - you know if only their study was nicer more tidy than - you know they would be able to work better if the kitchen was you know all stainless-steel surfaces then you know they would become a great chef overnight you know and they would cook every meal. But...  Have you struggled with that? Is there an example of that in your own life - if you only moved to X city things would have turned out differently or better?  Oh always. I mean I am a hopeless procrastinator. I am always putting off tasks. And a lot of that is you know down to thinking well yeah but I cannot possibly work if - before the washing up's done or while my desk is untidy. You know I just need to sort out this place and then I can you know get down to it properly. So I think there is a bit of that.  We do not want to give away too much because there is some suspense and some twists and turns in the book. But I think it is safe to reveal that sooner or later something happens to the floors. And the tale turns into a thriller in the vein of Edgar Allan Poe's The Tell-Tale Heart which the narrator actually references. Was that your inspiration for the story from the inception?  Well it is probably the most famous story ever written about floorboards so it is...  So there is that yeah.  Yeah. The - no. The idea for the book came originally from a real experience. I was looking out for a flat belonging to some friends of my sister's. And like Oscar's flat it had beautiful wooden floors and two cats. And it was - generally speaking - a very very nice flat. And it was in a foreign city. Nothing happened I hasten to add. It was left completely intact with everyone alive and well.  Do you have wooden floors?  No. I have a gray carpet.   A gray carpet - which hides stains.  Well in theory. I mean the worst floor-cleaning accident I have ever experienced happened to the gray carpet - and a bottle of soy sauce - but it was not the one in the flat that I have. Soy sauce if you leave it on for a while does not come out.  Ah good things to know. All right. And we should mention there are a couple of - actually very interesting practical tips in the book about how to care for your wooden floors.  One or two yeah. I found myself discovering more about the process than I ever thought I would know anyway. But - so some of that is passed on.  Will Wiles. His debut novel is called Care of Wooden Floors. He joined us from the studios of the BBC in London. Will thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you. 