 Hey there UP FIRST listeners. It is Steve Inskeep with something for you from NPR's new podcast Book Of The Day. Books can help us make sense of the world can help us engage with ideas and issues or escape from them. Book Of The Day brings you a handpicked selection of novels and non-fiction in 15 minutes or less through conversations with the authors. Today's episode features two books that offer unexpected views of the national debate over abortion rights.   This is NPR's Book of the Day. I am Andrew Limbong. When the writer Leni Zumas was pursuing in-vitro fertilization she started doing some research and she came upon various fetal personhood movements in the United States. In her novel Red Clocks Zumas imagines a world where these legal efforts pass and she spoke with NPR's Scott Simon about the questions she was dealing with when writing it and about what it meant to be a mother. But first with all the news right now about Texas and abortion rights NPR's Michel Martin spoke with the writer Joshua Prager about someone who is been so often lost in the debates over Roe v. Wade - the baby who is at the center of the trial. Prager's book is called The Family Roe An American Story.  The Texas law that severely restricts access to abortion in that state has set off a furious round of public debate and private legal strategizing. But it is only the latest effort in a decades-long battle to overturn the landmark Supreme Court case legalizing most abortions Roe v. Wade. That case has been a touchstone for both sides of the abortion issue since it was delivered nearly 50 years ago. And yet for all the attention Roe v. Wade has received over the years some facts about the case remain obscure to much of the public such as the fact that the pregnancy at the heart of the legal dispute did not end with an abortion. A baby girl was born and a few knew who or where she was. And after a series of disturbing encounters she preferred to keep it that way. But now she is given journalist and author Joshua Prager permission to reveal her identity in his new book The Family Roe An American Story. And Joshua Prager is with us now. Mr. Prager welcome. Thank you so much for talking to us.  Thank you for having me.  So you have met her and you tell her story now. Who is she?  So her name is Shelley Lynn Thornton. She was born in June of 1970 a few months after Norma McCorvey filed Roe and a few years before the case was decided. She was a toddler when Roe was decided in January of 1973. She was raised by a woman and a man who soon thereafter separated because of a drinking problem he had. And she was growing up as a pretty basic teenager as she put it. She said she cared about dating and buying nice shoes and things like that when all of a sudden her life changed a few days before her 19th birthday because a tabloid sent an investigator to find her and then told her that they were going to publish their story whether she wanted them to or not. They did not name her. But all of a sudden her life had a before and an after. She was now tied to Roe and to Norma. She had grown up in a home that was against abortion and she also now felt that she was carrying an enormous secret that as she put it whenever she met someone they did not quite know exactly who she was.  So what about Norma McCorvey? I mean her - Shelley's mother. I mean she is such a complicated figure. How do we even think about Norma McCorvey?  Well Norma was a very complicated person. Norma was conflicted about abortion. On the one hand you know she felt that a woman ought to have the right to choose. On the other hand she was raised in a very religious home and she was told that this is absolutely forbidden. And even as she was proud as the years went by of her role in Roe she was ambivalent about it. And even a greater reason why she then left the pro-choice for the pro-life movement was that she did not feel that she had a seat at the table in the pro-choice movement. She was not exactly the greatest representation for her movement. They - you know she was an unstable and unreliable witness. She lied all the time and she was not often invited to the press conferences and the book parties and the rallies. And she came to resent that. But at the end of her life she really felt that she did not have a place in either movement and she pushed it all away. And she wanted it known that she had never had an abortion. She wanted everyone to know that she had actually had three children.  Well the other aspect of this story - I mean you describe these sort of big feelings and particularly how so many women have been - how can we put this? - captive of forces beyond their choice and control right?  Yeah.  But one of the points you make in the book is that this kind of extended to Shelley. There was this ongoing effort to use her...  Yeah.  ...For various people's purposes including her mother's purposes.  Absolutely.  How does she think about that now?  So she came to realize a few days before she was 19 when she was alerted to who her biological mother was that people saw her as a symbol. It was the National Enquirer that sort of tracked her down and the investigator and the reporter said you know the pro-life community wants to show you off as a happy living healthy individual. And she wanted no part of that. She was actually sort of conflicted herself much like her biological mother. She had an unwanted pregnancy herself a few years later before she was married and she felt that abortion as she put it was not part of who I am. And she did not have an abortion. She believed that a woman should have the right to choose so that experience sort of deepened her thinking on it as one would imagine it would. And most importantly though she wanted no part as I say of what the pro-life saw in her this symbol as somebody who embodied their argument against abortion someone who was the incarnation of that argument. If anything she told me she represented what it is to be born unwanted. Of course while there are tens of millions of children who are sadly born unwanted only her conception had led to Roe and so she carried a burden that was really unique.  You call it an American story. Your - the title...  Yeah.  ...Of your book is The Family Roe An American Story.  Yeah.  Why do you say that?  Well the family really refers here to two different families. There is the family that Norma had. Norma - a broken family Norma and her three - and the three children she relinquished to adoption. But then there is also the much larger family as I see it - the tens of millions of people who are on either side of this issue. And what is fascinating to me is that Norma was the only thing that the pro-choice and the pro-life sort of had in common because she would started off on one side and gone to the other. And what I tried to do was tell the larger story through this smaller story. And as I say you know Norma's family her immediate family was sort of rent and riven by the incompatibility as she saw it of sex and religion. And that is the exact same thing in my mind that has brought America apart - pulled America apart on this issue. And so by humanizing the issue by enabling people to look at abortion not through politics but people I tried to sort of shine a light on how America got to this sad point.  Well you know the timing is remarkable. I mean after 10 years of working on this project your book arrives at the very moment that the Supreme Court will soon hear a case that may well determine the fate of Roe. And I cannot help but ask if you feel comfortable saying what does - does Shelley - and perhaps even her sisters - Norma McCorvey's daughter - does she have thoughts about that?  They do. All three of Norma's daughters spoke to me about the fact that they do believe in a woman's right to choose even if they themselves had never felt comfortable to have an abortion. And it is not only that Shelley does believe that abortion ought to be legal. She also wants people to know as she puts it that she is not a symbol for one side of this issue. She is her own person distinct and apart from Roe and abortion.  That was Joshua Prager author of The Family Roe An American Story. You can read an excerpt from the book in The Atlantic. Joshua Prager thank you so much for joining us.  Thank you for having me.   The way Shelley does not want to be used as a symbol for either side of the abortion debate Leni Zumas brings that same complexity to the characters of her novel Red Clocks. Here she is from a 2018 interview with NPR's Scott Simon.  The novel Red Clocks imagines a time in which something called the Personhood Amendment has made abortion and in-vitro fertilization a crime in the United States and Canada returns women who slip across the border to seek one. It is a novel set in an alternate reality of an Oregon town near the border that invites inevitable comparison with Margaret Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale. Is it also a parable for our times? Red Clocks is by Leni Zumas. Her fiction has appeared in numerous literary magazines and has been acclaimed for her exquisite wordplay. She is also an associate professor of English at Portland State University and joins us from the studios of Oregon Public Broadcasting. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you Scott.  You must have begun this novel more than a year ago before the last inauguration. So what put this story in your mind?  Yeah I started writing it around 2010. It started from some personal anxiety and anguish of my own. I was dealing with infertility and really wanted to get pregnant and was not able to. And I had a lot of questions about why I wanted to become a mother what it meant to be a mother what it meant to be fertile or infertile. And when I was starting to pursue in-vitro fertilization and doing some research about it I started to come upon something called the Personhood Amendment and various fetal personhood movements in the United States people who wanted to make it a crime to do anything to a single-celled zygote. And so that was something that really fueled my curiosity and frankly my anger. And so it started out personal. And it really expanded to be about the political future of our country.  You have intertwined the stories of four or five women here. And I will just mention a few - Roberta or Ro a teacher who wants a child on her own her best student Mattie who becomes known in the narrative as the daughter. She is 16 and pregnant - decides to run for the border A previously unheralded polar explorer named - I cannot pronounce her name.  I say it as Eivor Minervudottir. But I do not speak Faroese so I am probably butchering it.  Well somebody in our audience undoubtedly will let us know that - if you are butchered it. I want to read something that is written in her voice.  We woke to the floes rafting up around the ship. Massive blue-white shelves thrust vertically by wind and tide jumped roaring out of the water and smashed at the keel. To my knowledge I may now add the sound ice makes when it destroys a ship booming gun cracks and a smaller yelping. I looked up this explorer because I found those passengers so compelling.  .  Imagine my amazement...  I am glad.  ...To find out it is all your fiction is not it?  I happen to be a person who is long been obsessed with polar exploration and maritime adventure. And so that is what I imported when I was imagining this woman from the Faroe Islands who gets aboard these ships by pretending she is a boy and teaches herself polar hydrology.  I have to share with you. There was a phrase that startled me a little. At one point the 16-year-old the daughter who becomes pregnant refers to what I will refer to the entity inside of her as the clump.  Yeah.  I will ask because it is your character. Does she do that to distance herself or what?  That is a good question. I think that she does want to distance herself. But she is - she does not know what she is doing you know? She is - she has not quite turned 16. And she herself is adopted which makes her decision to seek an abortion more complicated.  Can you see how even some people who believe in abortion rights just might find a phrase like the clump to be a euphemism that aggravates them?  Yes I can. And I hope that that aggravation starts a conversation you know or contributes to a conversation that is obviously already happening.  As you may know there are couples that go through IVF and they see something flickering on that screen and begin to feel very deeply about it. It is suddenly - if you will it is not a clump to them. It becomes something with living properties.  I think that is where the complexity lies in this conversation that - you know I remember when I got the call that I was pregnant after many many tries. And certainly I was not using the word clump to myself. But that does not mean that a 15.5-year-old does not get to use that word for herself.  How do you feel about comparisons to The Handmaid's Tale? Well wait. As soon as I hear myself utter that question I am thinking what is wrong with that?   How could that possibly hurt? But go ahead please.  I have admired Margaret Atwood for a really long time and I love her work. And I think our books are very different in the sense that in The Handmaid's Tale she is created such a spectacular and drastic world that does draw on elements of historical fact but which is really so separate from our own world whereas I think that the world of Red Clocks could frankly happen next week.  Leni Zumas - her novel Red Clocks. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you Scott. It was a pleasure.  That is it for this week. I am Andrew Limbong. Thanks for listening. NPR's Book Of The Day is produced by Megan Lim edited by Petra Mayer Megan Sullivan and Tayla Burney. The show elements this week were produced and edited by Noah Caldwell Ashley Brown Daniel Hensel D. Parvaz Avery Keatley Scott Saloway Emma Peaslee Ed McNulty William Troop David Guthers  and Robert Baldwin III. Our managing editor is Beth Donovan. Thanks again and happy reading!  