 A few key pages of Donald Trump's old tax filings offer some facts behind his words. Days ago in a presidential debate Hillary Clinton suggested Trump might be refusing to release his tax returns because he was paying no taxes. Trump replied quote that makes me smart. Later he discussed the exchange with Bill O'Reilly of Fox News.  BILL O' Now they are going to come after you - they being the Clinton campaign - on the statement that you made that you were smart for paying as few taxes as you could possibly pay. You know that is going to be in the next debate. It is going to be on campaign ads. Do you have any defense for that right now?  No I did not say that. What she said is maybe you paid no taxes. I said well that would make me very smart. O' Right.  And I have to tell you something tax is a big expense. And I would not mind paying taxes a lot less if our politicians knew how to spend the money but they do not. They waste the money.  That is Trump the other day. Now the New York Times has published part of Trump's 1995 tax filings which were mailed to The Times. They show Trump claimed a tax deduction for more than 900 million of previous business losses. The Times says he could have used that loss to avoid paying taxes for up to 18 years. So let us discuss this and more with commentator and columnist Cokie Roberts who joins us most Mondays. Hi Cokie.  Hi Steve.  Also with us once again here in the studios Tucker Carlson Fox News host and editor-in-chief of The Daily Caller. Thanks for coming by Tucker...  Oh good morning.  Hey Tucker.  ...Wearing your tie as always. Cokie what should we make of this the tax news?  Well obviously it is a very big story because Donald Trump has not released his income taxes. And so Hillary Clinton just tweeted out three pages of Trump's tax return confirms he is a business failure who is gotten rich at your expense. Imagine what he is hiding in the rest. That is the theme that we are going to hear from the Clinton campaign. You pay your taxes you support the veterans the roads the schools - he does not. And by the way this was a failure at business. He is not the really terrific businessman that he portrays himself.  Tucker Carlson Rudy Giuliani was defending Trump over the weekend saying he is a genius for not paying taxes.  Well I mean it is hard to know exactly what the story is. No one's alleging a crime here. Are we supposed to be offended that he did not pay more than he owed? I did not know we were supposed to do that. Or that he lost money in business? People do that. I mean clearly the Tax Code itself is rotten. It is written by lobbyists. It discourages honest work. We literally - tax wages at twice the rate of investment. That is bad. And that is an interesting debate to have but if the standard is that you have to pay more than you are required to pay who meets that standard exactly?  Although this maybe is the thing that makes this politically explosive Trump drives casinos into the ground as a business failure and then gets a free pass - as real estate developers legally can you point that out - for many years forward. He does not have to pay taxes on profitable years. If you are an average person and you are unemployed for a couple of years and run up a bunch of debts you do not get a free pass on your taxes later.  Right. And other thing is you talk about running casinos into the ground the - that is the part that I think is even worse for him. And that is something the Clinton campaign has been trying to capitalize on bringing out people that he put out of business people he did not pay - those kinds of things which show the voters who have been very affectionate toward Trump start to worry that maybe he is not really on their team.  Tucker Carlson.  Well but I mean but the way to play this if you are Trump or anybody trying to navigate the new populism is to take three steps back and say wait a second it is a corrupt system everybody knows it. This is another example of it. But the people who are benefiting from that system - every lobbyist in Washington every corporate chieftain - are 100 percent behind Hillary Clinton. Why is that?  Well...  So who does challenge the status quo here?  And that is what he is going to do and apparently go after the way the Clintons have made their money saying it all comes from big speeches. And he is forgetting about the books but - and that they are beholden to the people who have given them that money. And he said that over the weekend. He said Hillary Clinton's only loyal to her donors. She is - and then he went on to say she is probably not even loyal to Bill and that thereby you know going in a direction that many of his advisers have said he should not go in which is toward the Clinton marriage. And...  You used an interesting phrase there Tucker Carlson the new populism. What is the new populism?  Well the new populism is basically the idea that you know people who shop at Wal-Mart ought to be able to participate in the political process too. It is the revolt of a dying middle class that neither party represents neither party really wants to represent from what I can tell. And you know it is kind of anger of people - maybe legitimate - who have been left out of the economic growth of the past 20 years.  Let us bring in another subject here if we can. Hillary Clinton over the weekend continued her outreach to black voters. Yesterday she was in North Carolina. Let us listen to a little bit of that.   They say that all of our problems would be solved simply by more law and order as if the systemic racism plaguing our country does not exist.  Few interesting things there. One of them she is continuing to use the phrase systemic racism the other that she is working hard to get the black vote. We had Leslie Wims  African-American activist on the program from Florida the other day who said Clinton was not doing nearly enough was not trying at all in her opinion. Cokie how seriously does the Clinton campaign take that concern?  Very seriously. I think it is wrong to say she is not trying. I think she is trying very hard but she has not been able to energize certainly to the degree Barack Obama did - African-American voters particularly young African-American voters. But she is working hard on that and her best surrogate there is Michelle Obama. And Michelle - Barack Obama's out there too but Michelle Obama is the person who really speaks to these young voters and speaks in a way that they relate to. Also LeBron James endorsed Hillary Clinton overnight and said that she would build on his good friend Barack Obama's legacy. So I think she is working this very hard but it is a problem because she has to get not just African-Americans but women and young people and Hispanics more enthusiastic about her campaign if she wants to offset Donald Trump's support among whites and also the fundamental fact that this is a change election. And we still see...  Tucker let me just - I have just got to...  ...Three-quarters of the people saying that they - the country's not going in the right direction.  Tucker just got a few seconds left but I want to ask about that phrase systemic racism...  Right.  ...The idea that bias is not a few individuals it is the system. Can conservatives - some conservatives buy that notion of the United States?  Well you know it is part - you know allegations need to be precise in order to be evaluated. And that one is not but if the idea is that white racism is the single most profound problem for black America - not many people believe that. I mean it is part of the problem presumably but is it the biggest problem? I do not think that idea's enough to get black turnout where she needs...  A lot of black people do believe that...  And we have got to leave...  ...She also uses the term implicit bias which a lot of people also believe.  And because of the clock we have got to leave the discussion there - so much more to say. Cokie Roberts thanks very much. Glad you joined us once again.  Thank you.  And Tucker Carlson of Fox News and The Daily Caller thanks for coming by as well.  Thanks Steve.  And a reminder the vice presidential debate is tomorrow at 9 oclock Eastern. We will have live coverage on many NPR stations. 