 It is PR News. I am Steve Inskeep.  And I am David Greene good morning. Today is the day the Affordable Care Act becomes operational. Americans can begin signing up for health insurance at online marketplaces known as exchanges. Now since the president signed Obamacare it has survived more than 50 votes in Congress a Supreme Court challenge a presidential election and as of this morning a government shutdown. Much of the spending for the law is mandatory and will not be cut off. But now Obamacare must survive something else - its own implementation. Here's NPR's Mara Liasson.  The political battle over Obamacare is nearly five years old. But today says GOP pollster Bill McInturff a new chapter begins.  What happens today is we are going to move from this policy debate about Obamacare to a reality outcome debate what impact does it have on millions and millions of Americans and do they judge it to be good or bad? And I believe attitudes will shift based on that reality of the outcome of Obamacare.  The president is confident that attitudes will shift in his direction. Like the Green Eggs and Ham story invoked by Sen. Ted Cruz Obamacare's chief antagonist in Congress Mr. Obama is certain that when Americans try it they will like it.   That is what is going to happen with the Affordable Care Act. And once it is working really well I guarantee you they will not call it Obamacare.   Obamacare as it will be called for the foreseeable future has already exacted a stiff political price from the president.   Obamacare equals economic slavery. Obamacare equals...  Opposition to Obamacare fueled the rise of the Tea Party which led to the Democrats' historic loss of their House majority in 2010. But Republicans paid a political price too. Their efforts to repeal the law in 2012 failed and Democrats held on to the White House and the Senate. Through it all public opinion has been consistent - consistently negative about the law even if voters do not want it defunded. Health care historian Jonathan Oberlander says that is why he is not sure even a flawless rollout will change perceptions.  This is not a program like Medicare or Social Security. It is a program that really is a series of policies and regulations and subsidies. And that makes it difficult to explain to the uninsured what the benefits are. And I do not think it is going to be easy for Obamacare - regardless of how well or not it does the next year - to overcome that chasm.  And both parties think the law helps them politically. Democratic pollster Geoff Garin says Republicans have overreached by staking everything on stopping the law.  The Republicans have made the debate about Obamacare a debate about them and their tactics and - and their wanting to repeal it totally rather than a debate about Democrats or whether Obamacare is a good or a bad thing.  But Republican economist Douglas Holtz-Eakin says there are good reasons the GOP has planted its flag on Obamacare.  I have had many people come up to me and say Why do Republicans do this? And I say well the polling tells them to. It continues to be the single thing that moves independents. So you get the famous swing voters. Nothing generates more political animation than Obamacare. So you if you look at intensity and turnout it still works.  Republicans see independent voters as the key to their two goals in  regaining control of the Senate and expanding their majority in the House. And there is also another dynamic motivating Republicans. Many feel this is their last chance to stop the law. Here's Sen. Cruz on Fox News.  SEN.  If we do not do it now in all likelihood Obamacare will never ever be repealed. Why is that? Their plan is to get the American people addicted to the sugar - addicted to the subsidies. And once that happens in all likelihood...  It is over. Never gets repealed.  Surrender is unthinkable for either side in this fight. That is because the health care debate reflects the deepest divide in American politics the core beliefs of the two parties about the role of government. That debate is for now at a standoff. Bill McInturff...  We ask very simple questions Do you think the government should do more or less? And that is a 48-48 proposition right now in the country. And it is been that way for about a decade. And guess what? If you have got a country that is poised at 48-48 about whether government should do more or less and we have a health care issue that is absolutely wrapped around that question it is not surprising that it is led to this sort of paralysis that has made this a very contentious issue for cycle after cycle.  Obamacare is not only the law of the land. It is also as of today a practical reality for millions of Americans. But as a political issue it is far from settled - and will not be anytime soon. Mara Liasson NPR News Washington. 