 Sen. Tim Kaine a Democrat from Virginia joins us now. Senator thanks for being with us.  You bet Scott. Glad to be with you.  The White House says there'ill be less than 50 special ops forces and they are not there for combat but logistics. You have reservations.  I do Scott. I have reservations about the administration's strategy and plan and I have deep reservations about what Congress has not done in the 15 months this war has been going on. First let us skip all the kind of rhetorical and linguistic distinctions. We have got troops deployed in combat. We have got about 3700 people who are deployed into Iraq and Syria. We have been there for now over - almost 15 months. It is cost the American taxpayer about 5 billion. And this notion that but do not worry they are not there for combat I just think does not pass the straight face test. We have lost a number of American service members who have been deployed in this mission and the first to die in combat died last week. And I think it dishonors their service to suggest that this is not combat. We are in an undeclared war that the president started on August 8 2014 and that Congress has refused to debate and vote on it as the Constitution requires. But as the ISIL threat and this U.S. involvement continues to expand I do think Congress is going to have to confront and really engage with the administration on what the strategy is and how much of it we are willing to authorize.  Senator I think I can quote you correctly. You just said an undeclared war that the president started. I mean that is a serious charge. That is what the Democrats used to accuse the previous administration of doing.  Well you know the Constitution is just so clear Scott. Article 1 of the Constitution says you should not be at war unless Congress declares it. Now a president has power under Article 2 to defend the United States. And when the bombing campaign first began in August of 2014 the president was defending a U.S. embassy a consulate actually in Erbil in northern Iraq. But within a few weeks the U.S. was now under no imminent threat and that continues. Once the president said - and this is almost a direct quote - it is time to go on offense against ISIL at that point congressional authorization was required. But to come to the president's defense he felt that this was necessary because ISIL...  Yeah.  ...Was such a significant threat and I agree. But Congress does not want to touch it. Congress wants to criticize the president but neither authorize nor stop what the president is doing. And it is just a huge abdication of responsibility and it sets a horrible precedent. We all think ISIL is bad but what we are basically doing is setting a precedent where a president can start a war and take it you know for more than a year without Congress getting involved at all and that is just not what should happen.  Sen. Kaine as you see it from the Senate what is the administration's strategy in Syria and in the war against ISIS?  The strategy Scott is really hard to describe in Syria. So in Iraq there is a clear strategy. You can like it or not or you can say it is succeeding or not but it is basically to build up the capacity of the Iraqi security forces to battle ISIL. To help build up more capacity in Sunni areas and the Anbar province...  Well but let me - forgive me Senator.  Yeah.  I do not want to impersonate the last debate that we just saw but we have just got...  .  ...About 30 seconds left.  OK.  Do you think the administration perceives ISIS as a greater threat than the Assad regime in Syria and is making that choice in so many words?  Scott that is the problem. The Iraq strategy is clear but the Syria strategy is a muttle  because there is a desire to the defeat ISIL. And we have had some success with the Kurds in the north but there has not been a clear strategy vis-a-vis Assad. These are two problems that are connected and you cannot have a strategy that is just about one. We are hoping for a you know a strong outcome to these discussions in Geneva the restart of a peace discussion about Syria. But we have been pursuing a strategy in Syria that is kind of a half strategy without having a strategy on Assad and the refugee crisis and so many other  for that.  Sen. Tim Kaine thanks so much.  Thank you. 