 Halloween's tomorrow. So now's the time to binge watch those scary movies if you have not already - vampires exorcisms serial killers whatever you are into. If you are stumped we have got some recommendations. Author and critic Colin Fleming is with us with his picks from a particular horror genre he enjoys movies about brains. Hi Colin.  How is it going Rachel?  So - I do not think I have ever seen a brain movie. I do not even understand what that means.  I think sort of the original idea was that portions of our mind are frightening. And this transitioned into flying brain-based monster films in the late '50s and early 1960s. One of the best examples the representative one to me is 1962's The Brain That Would not Die. We have all seen plots like this. Crazy mad doctor's out with his wife gets into an accident. She falls out of the car gets decapitated takes it back to his workshopgarage and works to find a body for her. Now he is a bit of a swinger kind of like Larry from Three's Company crossed with...  Oh yeah .  ...A medico. I am trying devilishly hard to be on the right side of the FCC here. But let us just say there are a lot of noggin-based double entendres.    I hate him for what he is done to me if he only knew what it is like being like this. Together we could have revenge.  First of all I did not quite catch this from your description - she is still alive. The head is talking?  Oh yeah.  Oh yeah. OK obviously.  The head's talking to his previous experiment in these matters which is a monster in the closet near the table she sits on.  Oh that is who she is talking to. She is like let us team up and like get revenge on him. I mean we should say this was a thing. Like in the '50s and '60s this was just part of this gore genre that that did not feel actually so gory. I mean the stuff - I mean is it actually frightening when you watch it?  They tend not to be gory because we are still like in the black-and-white era. But there was one from 1958 called Fiend Without A Face which has one of the first gore scenes in all of moviedom . And it is quite an artful - strangely artful film. This time we have brains as vampires who look like airborne scorpions crossed with frontal lobes.  .  I almost think of it like as the id made visual. It is really this sort of sci-fi meets Grand Guignol.    The brain it is gone.   That is not all. The entire spinal cord is missing.   But...   That is incredible.   It is as if some mental vampire were at work.  Ratings.   So that sounds interesting. But you know are there plots? Are there storylines? Like is any of this actually watchable for longer than 10 minutes while you are laughing at it?  The plots are minimal. But yeah they are pretty watchable. But really the absolute lowest of the low - on the bottomest  rung would be 1963's  They Saved Hitler's Brain. And it sounds...  Wait. I am sorry.  ...Like I am making that up.  The movie is called They Saved Hitler's Brain?  Yes that was the thinking. Normally in these films someone goes to a barrow or a crypt and retrieves a head and reanimates it. In this case they go to a bunker head off to South America and the Nazi regime revisits where they went wrong before as they plot world domination.    You will see your great victory mein Fuhrer. That I promise you.   Mach Schnell. Mach Schnell.   Take him to the car.  Wait. Was that actually Hitler or was that just Hitler's brain talking?  Well it is his head. Again he gets upset. He is like in a little box. He is barking out orders.  Colin you have rendered me speechless. Happy Halloween brain movie-watching.  Yeah same to you Rachel. 