 These are tough days to do business in Greece. Lots of companies have shut down. Still there is still entrepreneurs willing to take on the challenge of building a new business in Greece. NPR's Jim Zarroli has this story of an American woman who opened a bakery in Athens specializing in a very American style treat.  The Greek economy may be limping along but business is pretty brisk at Hamptons Cupcakes in Athens. The tables in the sunny courtyard are filled with customers sipping Greek coffee and eating American cupcakes - people like Chris Papadimas a student.  It is something fresh here in Greece it is something tasty. If your coffee is just black it tastes even better.  Hamptons cupcakes was started by Nicole Kotovos a 37-year-old former TV producer from New York. A few years ago she wanted to make a change in her life. A Greek-American herself she figured Greece might be open to the cupcake fad. She got here just as the economy was tanking.  The Greeks tell me they are like oh if only you had been here in the better times. I mean you came at the worst time what were you thinking? To this day I hear thank god you have an American passport you can just get up and leave. Why are not you doing it?  But Kotovos persisted and today she is just opened her third store. The decor is very Martha Stewart with glass cake dishes stacked on white wooden shelves. The menu is on a chalkboard and there is a window where you can watch the baking. When she started Kotovos had to teach her employees how to bake American-style. And she had to tweak the recipes.  It was almost a three month process until we actually came out with a cupcake that could withstand the climate here. And we change it a little bit in the summer. We keep it very cool inside for obvious reasons but it is working.  Understanding how to do business in Greece was trickier. For example Greece has its own unusual system of financing. As a business owner she can write checks to suppliers or contractors and post-date them. The suppliers cannot cash them right away but they can use them as collateral for a bank loan.  It is a very different policy here. It works great if you are building up a company.  So it is a form of credit almost?  Almost.  This kind of financing has become much harder to get recently. Like other Greek businesses Hamptons Cupcakes has to pay cash for everything it buys now. Kotovos has also had to get used to Greece's strict employment laws. Her workers have guaranteed wages and benefits including four weeks of vacation and every Christmas and Easter they get an extra month's salary as a kind of bonus.  I said next life I am coming to Greece as an employee and America as an employer.  That is the Greek way and Kotovos does not really complain too much about the regulations. What does frustrate her is the way the rules change. One day the government demands a certain kind of permit the next day it wants something else. It is confusing and she says a lot of Greek businesses develop a kind of casual attitude toward the rules.  For better or for worse they sort of figure ways to do things legally but with the least possible effort - is the best way I can say it the most diplomatic way I can say it. For example there are many stores that operate without actually having full permits which eventually have to get but they just - they have not been able to yet.  For all the troubles however Kotovos remains a big booster of Greece. There is a lot of native business talent in the country she says and she is convinced the economy can recover.  They definitely have not reached it and they are probably not even close yet but I constantly have this positive thought that it will it will happen. And that is what I love about it.  Meanwhile she is trying to show that new businesses can survive and grow in Greece even in the midst of a long and very painful downturn. Jim Zarroli NPR News. 