 How did the federal government lose track of 545 families? The Trump administration separated migrant children from their parents. Officials said on the record at the time it was a deliberate policy to deter more migration. A court ordered the U.S. to reunite the families with help from nonprofit groups. But this week officials said hundreds of parents cannot be found. Nan Schivone is legal director for Justice in Motion one of the groups helping with the reunions.  What is going wrong is that parents were put in criminal proceedings and children were sent to Office of Refugee Resettlement custody. And those two agencies the Department of Justice and the Health and Human Services did not have a cross-checking system.  I think you are trying to tell me there were two different agencies that did not share records well.  There actually were three agencies that did not share their records well because we cannot forget about the Department of Homeland Security that is in charge of the Customs and Border Patrol and ICE who were the agents that effectuated the separations.  I guess on some level did officials just not anticipate the possibility that a court would tell them to reunify families?  I think that is exactly what happened. I do not think they ever had a plan to keep track of the families or reunify them. This administration has been laser-focused on punishing migrants fleeing harm and dismantling the asylum and protection system in the United States. And I think that they were using this as a deterrent. And members of their own administration warned of the trauma and suffering that would be caused. And of course we are bearing that out.  With the exception of very young children cannot many of the children recite their parents' names their hometowns where they came from provide information that would make it easier to locate their parents?  They can and in some cases that is happened. And then my team at Justice in Motion is tasked with finding parents for whom that information is not available. And again just to be grounded in the reality here we are dealing with separations that started over three years ago now. So information that was recorded in some government system may not be accurate anymore. We have to remember that most of these families are fleeing harm and extreme conditions in their communities. So there are various safety concerns and so many of them simply might not have returned to where they were coming from.  What do we make of the additional disclosure that the government is unable to locate about 360 of the children?  That is troubling. And it is further evidence that there are serious problems with this administration's management of the federal government.  What does it mean that they cannot locate the children? Can we presume they are safe somewhere? Do we have no information at all?  Well the fact is when we are doing these searches for parents we do not know whether or not they are already in touch with their children. And that is why our work to locate the parents and verify information on what they know is so essential.  But I am just trying to think of the fact that there must have been a chain of custody. I mean how is it - what does it mean to lose track of a child who is in a system like that? Where are they?  Well it is possible that someone in the government knows. But we just do not have that information and that is something that the ACLU is constantly trying to suss out with the government.  Is the administration making an effort in your judgment?  A minimal effort required by federal court litigation.  Nan Schivone of Justice in Motion.  