 Hey UP FIRST listeners. Before we get started a reminder that the podcast will be right here with you through Election Day and beyond providing the latest reporting and analysis you need to stay informed about what is happening. The reason we can do this work is because of your financial contributions so if you are in a position to do so please please take a moment and donate to your local NPR station today. You will be funding the reporting you get from this podcast and so much more. Please go to donate.npr.orgupfirst and thanks.   Coronavirus cases are surging in the U.S. Over 83000 new infections were reported on Friday.  But President Trump says the virus is almost over. Joe Biden uses the same numbers to criticize the president. I am Scott Simon.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro and this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   We are not learning to live with it. We are learning to die with it. This is a dark winter ahead.  And using more optimistic metaphors President Trump.   We are not entering a dark winter. We are entering the final turn and approaching the light at the end of the tunnel. That is the way I look at it.   And in the West the fire season is far from over. A Colorado forest fire grew by more than 100000 acres in a single day.  Please stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Florida North Carolina Ohio Wisconsin - President Trump is in a final sprint to Election Day holding five rallies in two days hoping to shore up his supporters. He is continued to paint Joe Biden as an extremist.   It is a movement of not letting these maniacs take over our country and destroy it.  Biden's in Pennsylvania today to deliver more of his closing message. He is been hitting back at Trump criticizing his coronavirus response while laying out his own plan to try to curtail the virus.   I am not going to shut down the economy. I am not going to shut down the country. I am going to shut down the virus.  White House correspondent Franco Ordoez joins us now for more on what the candidates are doing in these final days. Hi Franco. FRANCO ORDOEZ  Hi Lulu.  So you are on the road. Where are you right now? ORDO Well I am in Palm Beach at the moment. This is the stop where President Trump is actually going to vote this morning after holding two events in the state. First was with seniors at The Villages which is one of the country's largest retirement communities. There he repeatedly attacked Biden. He claimed the former vice president would quote obliterate Medicare and Social Security and 401s. He again also called for suburban women to support him but he also attacked Biden's pick for Vice President Kamala Harris charging that the United States would not allow a female socialist president. You know he then went to Pensacola where he delivered a similar message and said Biden wanted to shut down the country but the contrast obviously is that Biden wants more serious protections against the pandemic.  Trump is behind in the polls and in fundraising. What do the president and his supporters say about those signs that he is behind? ORDO Yeah that is really interesting. Trump you know says he is confident. He insists the size of his rallies are too big for someone who is in second place. He actually came back to speak with a few of us reporters yesterday on Air Force One. He says the returns show he is ahead not behind. Polls obviously indicate otherwise but that does not matter to some supporters like Jody Costanzo  who was at the rally in The Villages. She dismissed the polls.  I think that is fake news. You can just look around here and you see the enthusiasm of the crowd. And I do not see this enthusiasm from the Biden supporters. ORDO You know and she said that also exists when you drive around the state and you see all the flags and banners for Trump which she says you do not see for Biden.  Five rallies in two days is a lot. What is Trump actually hoping to accomplish in these last few days? ORDO It is a lot. The key will be whether the enthusiasm that Jody is feeling and talking about can be translated into votes. Republican strategists that I have spoken with say it is less now about changing people's minds and more about ensuring supporters get to the voting booth. Brett Doster a veteran strategist in Florida told me that nowhere is that more important than in Florida where winning and losing can really be decided by just a few thousand votes.  Getting your vote out in places like the Panhandle or The Villages or southwest Florida even if you only motivate 25 to 50000 more votes it is going to mean the difference between winning and losing. ORDO You know and not only that - the race here in Florida is really tight and with 29 electoral votes at stake the outcome will really have a major impact on who becomes president.  Indeed. Joe Biden is also traveling to a state that is very important Pennsylvania. He is visiting at least two counties. He often speaks about his childhood in Scranton. What is his closing argument? ORDO Yes Pennsylvania is another crucial state. Trump won it in 2016 but Biden is ahead in the polls and clearly feels it is within his reach. Biden's message is focused on Trump's handling of the virus or as Biden would say Trump's mishandling of the virus. Biden says Trump's message that we are rounding the corner and learning to live with the coronavirus is not only wrong that it is dangerous you know considering the spike of cases that we are seeing. He was in Wilmington Del. yesterday where he discussed more of his plan to address the virus which he says includes more testing and help for local governments.  And we cannot forget that a record number of people have already voted. How is that affecting the campaigns? ORDO It is a huge number. More than 50 million people have already voted and that includes 4.7 million people in Florida. And just to let that sink in that is 50 of the entire 2016 voter turnout. So with less than two weeks to go it just shows the level of interest in what is very very likely to be record turnout.  That is White House correspondent Franco Ordoez. Thank you so much. ORDO Thank you.  For more on the presidential campaign - where Trump and Biden are going what they are promising to do subscribe to the NPR Politics Podcast.   The U.S. is entering into what many believe is the pandemic's fall surge and the third spike since the start of this pandemic. There have been a record number of infections. Some of the worst outbreaks are actually now in the Midwest with the situation being especially dire in rural areas.  Many of the communities that were spared in the spring and summer are now getting hit hard. Reporter Will Stone is following the path of the pandemic and joins us. Will thanks for being with us.  Sure thing Scott.  Of course at the start of the pandemic big cities were more seriously affected which makes some sense when you consider urban population density. What we are looking at now are very different kinds of communities that are being struck. What do you see?  That is right. Cases have just exploded in the past month in rural America. They are now at record levels if you look at the number of new infections and hospitalizations and what is striking is that cases started to pick up in early September nationwide across the board - urban suburban rural - but the growth in rural counties has completely outpaced what you see in the cities. It is really accelerated and in the most rural counties the rate of infections per capita is much higher than what we see in the big urban centers now. It is about double and this makes sense because the Midwest the Great Plains parts of the West these are more rural states and this is where the pandemic has a foothold. But it is not only cases. This is what Brock Slabach with the National Rural Health Association told me.  We are seeing the mortality rates much higher than urban and of course we know that rural populations tend to be older sicker and poorer.  Which means they are more likely to get seriously ill if they catch the virus.  Will do we know why cases in rural states are surging?  I have been trying to get at this question in my reporting and there is no one reason. To an extent public health experts expected the pandemic to shift from the cities to more rural communities. We saw this trend with HIV for example. And once the coronavirus gets to these rural areas it can be really hard to slow it down because they do not have the resources like big cities. I have also had people tell me there is been a sense of complacency a feeling that this was an urban problem almost a myth that being more spread out means you are not at risk. And there is clearly a political element here. Rural America skews conservative and people who work in health care in small towns in states like the Dakotas they tell me that not everyone thinks the pandemic is that serious. And just this week I heard the governor of Ohio call out rural areas in his state for not wearing face masks as much.  How are states and how are hospitals trying to cope with the situation?  Well hospitals are scrambling to find room. Listen to what Dr. Joshua Kern said recently. He is with St. Luke's Hospital in Twin Falls Idaho.  I think we are all alarmed and frankly kind of scared about what is to come. We are being overwhelmed with patients and frankly there is nowhere to send them. Most of the hospitals in this area are experiencing similar issues. There is not really a cavalry to come - we are it.  This past week actually had the highest number of COVID hospitalizations that we have seen in the last two months so in Wisconsin - they have set up a field hospital in Utah. Some of the big hospitals in Salt Lake have maxed out their ICU capacity and this puts a huge strain on the entire region because the smaller rural hospitals do not have the staff or beds. So they count on transferring patients to the cities but that is getting a lot harder since everyone is increasingly busy. And it looks like the trends are moving in the wrong direction.  Reporter Will Stone who is tracking the path of the coronavirus which now is gripping the Midwest. Will thanks so much.  Thank you.   In Colorado this week a new wildfire the second largest in the state's history has forced the hurried evacuation of towns just outside Rocky Mountain National Park.  Colorado Public Radio's Dan Boyce has been watching the scene unfold and he joins us now from Winter Park Colo. Good morning.  Good morning Lulu.  This fire - people went to bed and it was not that big a deal although fires of course are always worrisome. But when they woke up in the morning it had advanced an incredible 20 miles. What happened?  Well bluntly I think we can chalk a lot of this one up to climate change. Colorado has been in a massive drought this year. We have been unseasonably warm later in the year than normal. And then add on top of that forests in this part of the state are just packed with dead trees killed by mountain pine beetles and warmer winters have led to an explosion of those pests. So then we have this day of extremely windy conditions and basically no humidity and the conditions you know are just ripe for a blowup like this. And you know I have just been coming back time and time again to this statistic Lulu. So prior to 2002 Colorado had never seen a wildfire larger than 100000 acres. The East Troublesome Fire where I am as you said grew more than 100000 acres in a single day.  That is an astonishing statistic. Thousands of people have been evacuated. Have there been any fatalities? How extensive is the damage?  Honestly at this point that is been confusing and people around here are getting frustrated by it. But here's Grand County Sheriff Brett Schroetlin on why his office has not been releasing numbers about property damage or missing people or injuries and it is just again that this fire is moving so stunningly fast.  We are not withholding information. We are not trying to delay information getting out there. We do not know. I have been through many of these areas up in there and things change every pass through that I go.  Efforts of first responders have been complicated by residents who have refused to abide by mandatory evacuation orders and some of these people have been posting photos of the fire and then also conflicting information to social media. And you know how that can just sort of generate these swirling rumor mills and all of that has then further hampered efforts to get accurate information.  You have spoken to some of the evacuees. What are they telling you?  I talked to Jennifer Siefert . She grew up in the nearby town of Granby and she just moved back last year to buy her dream home here. And her and her son were driving back to Granby from Denver as the fire really started blowing up.  I could hardly even cope with the reality that we were driving into the fire. When we got there the flames were visible from my porch. They were very close and we just went into panic and packed the house up in about two hours.  I spoke with her last night. She was able to confirm her house is still standing. The fire does seem under control right now near her house but evacuation orders remain in effect for a really big swath of territory here.  Is not this the time of year though that the fire season typically ends in Colorado?  I mean historically right? Not so much anymore. The weather forecast does call for more dangerous fire weather today but then about a foot of snow is supposed to move in later today or tonight. That really should help but fire experts around here do not expect it to end the fire season in Colorado yet. We will see.  Dan Boyce of Colorado Public Radio. Thank you and stay safe.  Thank you.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday October 24. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week.  In the meantime follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter. And keep an ear on this feed for occasional special episodes.  We are following the presidential race and all the news. We have great music books and just plain fun on Weekend Edition.  Every Saturday and Sunday morning find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  