 Unimaginable loss - over 700000 Americans have now died in this pandemic.  But there is some potentially encouraging news a new drug that could cut the risk of hospitalization or death by half among those with COVID-19.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon and this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   President Biden met yesterday with House Democrats on Capitol Hill.  They are still trying to resolve disagreements on a larger spending bill and that is holding up a bipartisan infrastructure bill.  The president told reporters after the meeting that they would deliver even if it took weeks.   I am telling you we are going to get this done.  And firings cancellations and investigations. We will look at the fallout from misconduct allegations in the National Women's Soccer League. So please stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   The U.S. has surpassed another terrible benchmark in this pandemic. Over 700000 people have died from COVID-19.  But there may be some encouraging news also. A new antiviral drug from Merck and Ridgeback Biotherapeutics appears to reduce the risk of hospitalization or death by half for COVID patients.  The companies say they will soon be asking the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for authorization to distribute the drug. We have NPR science correspondent Joe Palca with us to tell us more. Hi Joe.  Hi Lulu.  I want to first acknowledge the terrible death toll. But despite that we are in a different phase in this pandemic because of scientific advancements like the drug we are about to talk about. Tell us more.  Right. Well this is an antiviral drug. It is called molnupiravir. It blocks replication. In a study of 775 volunteers with mild to moderate uced the risk of hospitalization and death by 50 from 14 down to 7. So that is pretty good.  That is pretty good. There are already drugs out there for treating COVID-19. How is this one different?  Yes. Leaving aside the unproven claims of certain drugs to be miracle cures there are drugs called monoclonal antibodies that are out there and they work quite well to reduce the likelihood that someone with a coronavirus infection will get seriously ill or die. But Annie Luetkemeyer says there are challenges when it comes to using monoclonal antibody therapy. Luetkemeyer is a professor of medicine at the University of California San Francisco.  There are issues with supply availability. You have to come to some kind of a medical center to get either an IV or a subcutaneous infusion. And the fact is that for most people they just are not receiving this both in resource-limited and in less resource-limited settings.  So does this new drug appear to avoid some of these access issues?  Yeah it should be fairly straightforward both you know to prescribe and for people to take. It is a pill. So you do not need to visit the hospital or a special infusion center. But Luetkemeyer says there are challenges here as well. The evidence is for this drug to work well you have to give it to someone early in the course of the disease. Now originally Merck was exploring testing the drug on people who were hospitalized with  was not doing very much for them. So they abandoned that and went to testing people within five days of exhibiting symptoms. That is where they saw patients improve. Earlier in the illness would probably be even better. But Luetkemeyer says that means doctors are going to have to move fast if they suspect someone has COVID-19.  It really is going to put the onus on us making sure that we are able to test people quickly so they have access to you know testing and then if they are positive and symptomatic that we get them treatment very quickly.  And you know it is in fact possible the drug could be used as a preventative. If you know someone's been exposed to ld turn out to be useful to take it prophylactically to prevent infection. And it is definitely not an alternative to vaccination. That is still the best way to prevent COVID disease.  Yeah it is important to emphasize that. Do we know though if this treatment has any downsides?  From the trial so far no. But there is some question about whether it could cause genetic alterations so it is not recommended for people who are pregnant. And that is not such an unusual precaution. There are many drugs out there that are not supposed to be used during pregnancy.  And are there more drugs like this coming along? Give us some more good news.  Yes. In fact Pfizer and Roche both have drugs in development. And my guess is that once this drug is shown to work as it has been there'ill be other companies that'ill be jumping on looking for similar compounds.  NPR science correspondent Joe Palca thank you very much.  You are welcome.   President Biden made his first in-person visit yesterday with the House Democratic Caucus on Capitol Hill.  Meeting comes as Democrats missed a self-imposed deadline to vote on a 1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure bill that is being held up because of differences within the party on a different much larger partisan spending plan.  Democrats say they are working to address these conflicts. If they do not it could derail the vast majority of Biden's domestic agenda.  NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales joins us. Claudia thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks Scott. Good to be with you.  And what was the message the Democrats had coming out of their meeting yesterday?  They say they need more time. President Biden seemed to share that sentiment after he was leaving that meeting when a mob of reporters asked him when these votes would happen.   It does not matter when. It does not matter whether it is in six minutes six days or six weeks. We are going to get it done.  So clearly Democrats are not ready but we should note one piece of legislation that did not get voted on in that bipartisan legislation a highway funding provision that hit its own deadline was passed as a stand-alone bill in the House last night and now heads to the Senate. That said progressive members say they will not vote on the overall infrastructure bill until they reach a deal with moderates on a much larger plan. So that is delaying both votes. But although negotiations will continue these two factions of the party have been pretty far apart.  If Democrats are not ready to close the deal what did the president hope to accomplish by coming up to where they live and work?  He is trying to rally the Democrats. This is a very tricky time. Missing this deadline was a setback and it raises worries for the party that they cannot get this done. And some House Democrats complain that Biden has not been involved enough especially for this House caucus where there is this divide over the legislation. So we have seen the White House ramp up their involvement recently and it seems like Biden was there to get that encouragement going and keep them on track.  Did it work?  That is the frustration. Moderates and progressives were just trading barbs last night and statements over this week's failure. But some Democrats shared a note of unity after the meeting and more importantly they sounded determined to get both bills across the finish line. Here's Arizona Democrat Ruben Gallego.   Two important things I got out of that is that - please compromise. This is the most transformational thing we are going to be able to do for this country.  And Gallego went on to say one bill cannot pass without the other. And that was always the original deal by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi that these bills would move in tandem when they are both ready.  And of course there is another deadline that Congress is facing. And it is vital is not it?  It is. It is a big one coming. That is raising the debt limit. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen warned Congress this past week that the deadline will be reached on October 18. That is a little over two weeks from now. And she says if they do not address this the country could face a financial catastrophe. Republicans say they will not help Democrats solve this problem so they blocked a vote on it this past week. And they have suggested it should be part of Democrats' larger 3.5 trillion bill. But the party is refusing to go along with that plan. They say it is too risky. That said we do not know how they plan to solve this quite yet so that is going to build up serious worries in the coming days if they cannot get it done.  NPR congressional reporter Claudia Grisales thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.   Lisa Baird commissioner of the National Women's Soccer League has resigned. It comes after multiple misconduct scandals involving the league.  Soccer's international governing body FIFA as well as U.S. Soccer announced they are investigating a number of allegations including sexual misconduct accusations against Paul Riley. The now-former NWSL head coach led his team to championships in 2018 and 2019.  League also took the dramatic step yesterday of cancelling weekend games as they deal with allegations.  Some of the game's best players including Alex Morgan and Megan Rapinoe are blasting the NWSL for what they say is the league's complicity in the scandal. NPR sports correspondent Tom Goldman joins me now. Good morning.  Hi Lulu.  So I mean a lot of movement in this story. Give us a sense of what led to Baird's resignation.  Well we have to start Thursday. That was when this disturbing report on the sports website The Athletic came out and it detailed the misconduct allegations - more than a decade's worth - against Paul Riley that you mentioned. Then early yesterday Baird was part of an effort to really calm the roiling waters. She announced at the players' urging that this weekend's games would not be played to give everyone quote some space to reflect. Baird also apologized for the pain players were feeling and she said she took full responsibility for the role she played. Now players had blasted Baird and other league and team officials for either not acting or being dismissive after being alerted to Riley's alleged behavior. Despite Baird's admission of responsibility in that statement I mentioned the pressure proved too great and she is out after a little more than a year and a half as commissioner.  The allegations against Riley in particular were reported by The Athletic. How would you summarize some of the most significant details?  Well details from players about favoritism by the coach personal boundaries not being respected - but really the most explosive part is on-the-record accounts by two former female players about how Riley coerced sex from one of them multiple times how he forced the two to kiss in front of him in exchange for him going easier on the team in the next practice. And even after Riley was investigated by one team in 2015 and dismissed he was allowed to sign with another NWSL team the North Carolina Courage where he coached until late this week when he was fired after the report came out. Now Riley has denied most of the allegations including the most serious ones about sexual coercion and misconduct.  I mean beyond how Riley's case was dealt with is there a bigger issue in the NWSL when it comes to addressing misconduct?  There is Lulu. You know amazingly Riley is the second NWSL male coach fired this week. Richie Burke lost his job with the Washington Spirit after allegations he verbally and emotionally abused players. According to The Washington Post four teams have lost coaches since the summer after allegations of misconduct. And you know players say the problems are not just in the coaching ranks. They are in ownership too at the league office - mostly positions held by men. And there is real anger. This country's most famous player right now Megan Rapinoe who plays for an NWSL team - she tweeted men protecting men who are abusing women. Burn it all down. Let all the heads roll.  That is a significant statement there. But beyond rolling heads what are players generally saying they want to see happen?  The players union has made some demands including an independent investigation of Paul Riley suspension of any team or league staff member who violated league's anti-harassment policy or did not report a violation and then an explanation of how Riley was rehired after being investigated and released for misconduct back in 2015.  That is NPR sports correspondent Tom Goldman. Thank you so much.  You are welcome.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday October 2 2021. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. And you can follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter.  And for more news and interviews books and music you can find us on the radio.  The radio. Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. You can find your NPR stations at npr.org.  