 Another week of volatile news and I am running out of adjectives. President Trump recovering from ed that he was not so sick after all before saying he was really sick. He pulled out of a virtual debate with Joe Biden which was canceled last night in any case and said he would not support a new coronavirus stimulus bill before saying that he would. We are joined now by NPR senior editor and correspondent Ron Elving. Ron thanks so much for being with us.  Good to be with you Scott.  Ron there is a growing list of people concerned about the president's health right now in all ways is not there?  Concerned - yes. And it should be a concern for all of us. But among those expressing worry this week was Speaker Nancy Pelosi. She is proposing a commission of health professionals and others to assess future presidents' fitness. Also Rick Bright the former director of government work on a coronavirus vaccine - he told CNN this week that someone who is undergone these therapies - the steroid the cocktail of experimental drugs that the president has had - would normally still be in the hospital Scott. He said if the president is quote not in the right sound mind to make decisions rationally then he could be very reckless for the country and the world. And yesterday the president had time to call into Rush Limbaugh's show and shall we say stretched the rules on broadcast language when he was talking about Iran.   And Iran knows that. And they have been put on notice. If you  around with us if you do something bad to us we are going to do things to you that have never been done before.  And Scott that was just nine seconds. The call went on for two hours.  And you know we should not let amazing events fatigue our outlook too much 'ecause it is remarkable to hear a president set off an F-bomb on a broadcast show talking about a volatile international situation. And it raises questions about his health. What do we know about any rallies planned and for that matter movement on a coronavirus relief bill which the president at this hour seemed to support?  We expect the president to address a crowd from the Truman Balcony of the White House this afternoon and then to deliver a speech at a rally in Sanford Fla. on Monday. That'ill mean he will have to travel with other people and we do not know what kind of risk that poses for those other people. As for the relief bill the president said one day this week he was cutting off all negotiations until after the election. Then he said he might sign piecemeal efforts. Then on Friday he said suddenly he wanted a 1.8 trillion bill tweeting that the Republicans should quote go big unquote. But of course when people asked Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell about it he had his usual pitcher of ice water ready saying there was not enough time to do a deal and pass a bill in just three weeks.  But they are still rushing ahead with Supreme Court nomination hearings for Amy Coney Barrett.  Yes McConnell has another plan for those three weeks. It is all a matter of priorities. The House passed its most recent relief bill for COVID and the economy in May. It has never had a vote in the Senate. But lots of judicial appointments have had votes in the Senate. Barrett is the crowning jewel in that campaign Trump's third pick for the Supreme Court with an eye toward overturning the Affordable Care Act in the months ahead and perhaps Roe v. Wade in the years ahead.  Let me ask you about the canceled debate because Joe Biden is apparently going to use that - that was set aside for a town hall debate - as a town hall.  That is right. President Trump has actually struggled with the town hall format when he is used it. And let us face it. After the first debate there were even some Republicans who were relieved not to have two more. Biden may get some mileage from doing a town hall solo. And right now the debate commission is going ahead with plans for just one more debate on October 22 in Nashville.  Quick question - do debates count for what they used to anymore?  You know it was good to see a civil debate between the vice presidential candidates last week but it was largely a performance by surrogates intended to please their bosses and the party faithful. And those are the people perhaps who care most about the debates at this point. We will see about that last one though Scott on October 22.  NPR's Ron Elving thanks so much.  Thank you Scott. 