 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. Jane Austen died in 1817 and she still breaks into the bestseller lists. Her novels are still made it to hit movies. Even Stephen King might be intimidated by Jane Austen. She was a 19th century novelist with modern sense and sensibility if you please. A new collection has just been published of short stories by contemporary authors who have been inspired by her manners machinations drawing room dialogues and barbed insights. Jane Austen Made Me Do It Original Stories Inspired by Literature's Most Astute Observer of the Human Heart. And among the stories is Faux Jane by F.J. Meir which is a kind of faux name for Frank Delaney and Diane Meir. Both are acclaimed novelists. Frank is also an eminent BBC broadcaster. They are married and they have written what amounts to a modern Thin Man story featuring a glamorous couple their cunning winsome dog a posh restaurant and Jane Austen's pride and prejudice. Diane Meir and Frank Delaney join us from New York. Thanks for being with us.  How nice to hear your voice.  Hi Scott. How are you?  Fine thank you. This year we are coming up on the 200th anniversary of the publication of Sense and Sensibility Jane Austen's first novel. What were you trying to capture in this story of Jane Austen?  I have always been interested in her because I lived in England so long. I have been to her house. She fascinated me as a human being. She was the last of the solid gold virgins  And you did a number of broadcasts about her.  I did a number of broadcasts about her. And also she had a very interesting take on life.  I was not a Jane Austen aficionado except of course for what we had to read in school. But I knew all of the movie versions of her works and could talk about Keira Knightly versus Greer Garson you know long into the night.   But also you had been long and aficionado of The Thin Man. The Thin Man movies are new to me but not to you.  No - well I think most Americans certainly growing up in the '60s with the million-dollar movies came to love Myrna Loy and William Powell in The Thin Man. It was the kind of glamour that we just do not see anymore and I miss that.  And this is Nick and Nora Charles their dog Asta...  Their dog Asta.  ...of course appropriated those names. This is a mash up of Jane Austen and Nick and Nora Charles The Thin Man that you have done. But they were...  Absolutely.  ...you know they drank they joked they loved they laughed they solved mysteries.  They did and they lived a glamorous life - a glamorous urbane witty life.  Well let us get our listeners some idea of what you have done here. If you could read a section and Frank if we could ask you to be Charlie Scott the restaurateur and crime solver. And Diane...  Do not know if I can do is suavity Scott but I will try.  All right. Well well we will have a really plumy-voiced actor dub your lines later Frank. Okay?   Let us just get it done now. And Diane you can do the glamour it seems like.  I will set it up a little bit Scott to say that Nicola is a photographer shooting for Vanity Fair. And she is just shot a famous movie actress.  Get this she is just paid one million dollars for signed first edition of Pride and Prejudice.   Charles hooted Then she is an idiot.   Why? Because she overpaid?   Because there is no such thing.   Of course there is.   No absolutement. Niet.   Oh Charlie. Do not be silly. There must be.   Nope. Nope. No-diddily-ope.   But Jane Austin's books were printed were not they I mean by printers and bound by binders? I mean they are on paper. They are not illuminated manuscripts.   Look Nic I am telling you there is no such thing as a Jane Austen signed first edition. They did not do that in Jane's day. The books were badly made not valuable and most of all she did not do it.   You do not know that Charlie.   Your actress has bought a pub. She is been royally taken.   You are just being negative Nicola said confused and building a pout. She said she is been offered a signed first edition of Persuasion.   Charles snorted this time.   That is not nice Charlie.   Sweet meat Persuasion was published posthumously when Janey was dead when she was an ex-offer a former novelist. Dead do not you know? Dead women sign no books.  This mash up of The Thin Man and Jane Austen what do you think makes it work? What do they have to say to each other?  No matter how you slice into The Thin Man what Hammett did when he wrote it was...  That is Dashiell Hammett who wrote the stories yeah.  He did something that I love. He is also a social commentator. And Jane Austen was this social commentator par excellence. And any good thriller writer will tell you a lot about the mores of the time and the habits of the times and the social practices. Well Jane Austen's observation of social life not at all the similar from Hammett's observation of say the drinking and the clubbing and the nightclubbing and the dancing habits of Myrna Loy and William Powell in the The Thin Man.  Did writing this story make you appreciate something about Jane Austen all over again?  Yes. The thing that I have always loved about her is her precision. When we were starting this story I copy typed a page or two of Pride and Prejudice and she is exquisitely hard to edit. So what I appreciated here was the sparseness. What Diane started to talk to me about was the actual social manners and whether or not things had actually changed that much in terms of social aspirations because here we have this actress who has as much social aspiration for marrying a lord as Mrs. Bennett had for any of her daughters in Pride and Prejudice.  I think that is true. I also think the vitality of her women is really at a very important aspect of why she is endured and why she means so much to so many of us.  And again of course I guess we must note that that was also one of the observations made about Dashiell Hammett's Thin Man stories that the character we now know played in the movies by Myrna Loy was an independent woman.  She was. She was an heiress was not she? And she actually brought the William Powell character a kind of level of society that he would not have had available until...  Right.  ...their marriage. But her acceptance of his life...  A level of everything but sobriety.  That is...   That is right.  And to Diane's delight it was always the dog who solved the mystery.   So if we go on as we are promising to do and write some novels deriving from this idea of you know creating a latter day Thin Man with Vanity Fair or Glamour I have a sneaking suspicion that it would be the dog who solved the mysteries as well.   Diane Meir and Frank Delaney they are among the contributors who have written short stories in a new collection Jane Austen Made Me Do It Original Stories Inspired by Literature's Most Astute Observer of the Human Heart. Diane Meir Frank Delany thanks so much.  Thank you Scott.  Thank you Scott. 