 We are now entering the home stretch for the midterm elections which means candidates are pulling up heavy ammo with harder-hitting campaign ads. Bill Adair is editor of the nonpartisan fact-checking website PolitiFact.com. He is with us here in our Washington D.C. studios to truth squad a handful of the latest TV ads. Bill welcome back. Mr.  Thanks for having me.  This tends to be the time when candidates start pulling out the stops and people start paying attention. What in general are you seeing out there this campaign season? Mr.  Well a lot of attacks particularly with Republicans trying to link Democrats to Nancy Pelosi and Barack Obama. On the Republican side we are seeing a lot of complaints from the Democrats that they are going to take us back to the lack of regulation the Democrats say that brought down the economy.  Let us start with an ad. This is from a conservative anti-tax group called Americans for Job Security. And their target is Zach Space. He is an incumbent Democratic congressman from Ohio.  Unidentified Woman Zach Space voted for Nancy Pelosi's budgets and debt for job-killing energy taxes and for her wasteful stimulus and we still lost more than 2.5 million jobs.  So Bill how close was that to the truth? Mr.  Well we gave that one a half-true on our truth-o-meter. Indeed Zach Space had voted for the budget but he did not vote to raise the debt limit as the ad suggests. He supported the cap-and-trade bill but it really is quite a stretch to call that an energy tax. And the job count number was right. So overall that one earned a half-true on our truth-o-meter.  So from Ohio let us head south to Florida the Senate race there. Independent candidate Charlie Crist says in a new ad that his Republican contender Marco Rubio tried to insert one-and-a-half million dollars into the Florida state budget for a rowing institute. Let us listen to part of the ad.  Governor  Rubio tried to sneak almost 500 million in earmarks into the budget. I vetoed them one and a half million dollars for a rowing institute vetoed 800000 for artificial turf on a Miami field where he played flag football I vetoed that too.  One and a half million dollars for a rowing institute? Mr.  That is just a real distortion. We gave that our lowest rating pants on fire. And the reason is that it was not sneaking. In Florida all these earmarks are laid out very clearly and it was clear who the supporter of this was but it was not Marco Rubio it was another lawmaker. And so it is just a real distortion the way Crist has that so he gets out lowest rating pants on fire.  It seems like a lot of the substance of attack lines from Democrats this election season and in fact often in other election seasons is that Republicans want to privatize Social Security. There is an example of this from Wisconsin.  Unidentified Man Politician Reid Ribble has a worse idea Ribble wants to phase out Social Security forcing Wisconsin seniors to fend for themselves.  And the ad goes on to play this actually nearly inaudible clip of Ribble suggesting that somehow we have to establish a phase out of the current Social Security system. So what is wrong with this ad? Mr.  Well a couple of things. First of all it refers to Reid Ribble as a politician but he is not. He is actually never run for office before so that part is false. What is really misleading about it is this idea that seniors would have to fend for themselves. Indeed Ribble does support the plan that many Republicans support that would create personal accounts but like most Republicans he would do so only after protecting current seniors so that they continue to get their Social Security benefits. So they would not fend for themselves the way he suggests. So we also gave this one our lowest rating pants on fire.  Bill Adair is editor of the nonpartisan website PolitiFact.com. NPR and PolitiFact are working together to fact check some of what you will hear between now and the November 2nd midterm vote. You can always find that at NPR.orgTheMessageMachine. Bill thanks so much. Mr.  Thanks for having me. 