 Hugging a baby doll can sometimes soothe even the most upset toddler. And some researchers say it can do the same for adults with dementia. Doll therapy is catching on at nursing homes. But as Anna Gorman reports not everybody thinks this is a good idea.  Vivian Guzofsky is 88 and has Alzheimer's disease. She is holding a baby doll dressed in puppy dog pajamas.  Hello gorgeous . You are so cute.  She lives on a secure floor at Sunrise Senior Living in Beverly Hills. Caregiver Jessica Butler sits down beside her and they sing to the doll.   You are my sunshine...   ...Sunshine...   ...My only sunshine...   ...Sunshine...   You make me happy...  Nearly every day Guzofsky visits a pretend nursery at the home. She changes the doll's clothes or lays him down for a nap. She says she goes there for one reason.  Because I love babies and that is it. And I do have some very nice ones back when I live now in my room.  Her caregivers do not know if Guzofsky believes she is holding a doll or a real baby but they do know that the doll helps her when she gets agitated. Vladimir Kaplun is the former director of dementia care at the home.  She is able to stay calm. She is able to have a conversation.  Seniors with dementia often get bored angry or even violent. Senior centers and nursing homes are using doll therapy to both comfort their residents and prevent outbursts. Kaplun says other places may handle aggression differently.  The solution is not so give them a doll. The solution to give them an Ativan.  That is an anxiety medication that critics say is overused in nursing homes. But not all elder care providers support doll therapy some see it as demeaning. Gary Mitchell is a nurse in the U.K. who recently wrote a book about doll therapy.  It can be considered as treating people with dementia like children. And that perpetuates a lot of stigma with dementia care that we are trying to get away from.  Studies on doll therapy are limited but show it can lessen anxiety improve communication and reduce the need for drugs. Mitchell says it can also evoke long-buried memories.  For some people living with dementia it is life changing.   At Sunrise Beverly Hills the nursery is set up like a baby's room with a crib and changing table. There is a toy xylophone and a Dr. Seuss book. Kaplun says the idea is to give residents something to do and talk about.  What were your babies' names? How did you pick your babies' names? What are some of the best things about being a mom?  Another resident 87-year-old Marilou Roos is in a wheelchair and rarely speaks. She cannot take part in many activities anymore but she can hold the dolls.  Hold him really tight.  This morning Butler hands Roos a doll wrapped in a blanket. Roos pats him on the back and gives him a kiss.  You are doing a good job holding the baby...  Boy.  A boy yeah baby boy. And he is five months.  Caring for babies is second nature to Roos. Her daughter Ellen Swarts said her mom did everything for her five children.  She volunteered at the school she did Girl Scouts with us she was on the PTA so very involved in raising us.  Swarts said the progression of Alzheimer's has been hard. Her mother has not called her by name in over a year.  To see the light in her eyes when she has a baby in arms I do not care if it is real or not or if it is pretending. If that gives her comfort I am A-OK with it.  Swarts says all that matters to her is that the doll makes her mom happy when perhaps she needs it the most. I am Anna Gorman in Beverly Hills.  Anna Gorman is with our partner Kaiser Health News. 