 Award-winning writers in India have been returning their prizes. Dozens of writers have done this. They have been honored by India's National Academy of Letters. They say they are returning the prizes to protest violence and intolerance on India's streets as well as what they see as the government's failure to do anything about it. NPR's Julie McCarthy is covering this story from New Delhi. Hi Julie.  Hi Steve.  What is going on in the streets?  Well there have been this series of incidents of hate crimes in the name of defending Hindu beliefs. And bans on beef are among those. Hindus consider cows sacred and you have had several cases where these beef bans have aroused so much passion they have ended up in murder. A young Kashmiri driver a Muslim was doused with gasoline and set on fire this past weekend on the suspicion that he was transporting dead cows discovered in the Kashmir Valley. And one of the big high-profile cases was the murder of a Muslim man on the suspicion that he had consumed or stored beef in his house.  So you are reminding us that Hinduism is the largest single religion in India but there is also a huge Muslim minority. There is been a lot of religious tension. Where do the writers fit into all of this?  Well you know the writers were quite upset over the killing this year of two rationalists as they call them writers who take on the orthodoxy of things. They take on the suspicions and superstitions that undergird so much of Indian life. And they were targeted. And they were killed. And this really chilled the writers who did not see anybody talking about it. And along comes this series of bubbling violent incidences in the name of Hindu beliefs. And no one they saw was firmly denouncing it. And they began to turn back their awards in protest to that.  Well what does the government say about all this?  The government has condemned the violence and called for civility. But you know Steve the writers are saying look that fringe is blurring into the mainstream. And what is really gnawing at them was that they did not hear a forceful condemnation in the early days of these attacks. And they say without that what you are risking is India's unity. You are risking religious harmony here. This was a country founded on pluralism and secularism and they feel that is now in jeopardy because of an atmosphere of creeping intolerance.  Are they thinking particularly of Narendra Modi the Hindu nationalist prime minister?  They are and they end up blaming him for this atmosphere of rising tension. And what they see is - is Hindu chauvinism. They have never been fans of Modi. Many of them have never been fans of Modi from the beginning. And for some people this sort of atmosphere this sort of environment that is taking hold is a kind of a worst-fear-scenario for them. And what is at stake for these people is space to disagree with one another. They feel that is narrowing. And if that narrows you are narrowing the definition of what it means to be an Indian.  Julie thanks very much as always.  Thank you.  That is NPR's Julie McCarthy in New Delhi. 