 Now the congressional hearing yesterday focused in part on how to protect kids online because one of the allegations is that Instagram owned by Facebook is harmful to some kids. NPR education reporter Anya Kamenetz has been reporting on teen well-being and media use for many years. She even wrote a book about it called The Art Of Screen Time. Now before we talk to Anya we should say for transparency that after writing the book her husband's company was bought by Facebook. Her husband works in a division that is unrelated to the social media site. Anya good morning.  Morning Steve.  OK so when you look at the information that was disclosed in these leaked documents particularly about Instagram what stands out?  You know when I heard that Facebook had been concealing the fact that it was toxic for teen girls I was excited that they had some big trove of data on their millions of users that would now come to light. But that is unfortunately not what happened.  What do you mean?  Well what Facebook has done largely is they have been asking teenagers about their opinions. This is market research. There is no control group. They are not talking to non-Instagram users or following people over time. And they say do you think social media is bad for you? And you know this question does not happen in a vacuum obviously because clearly teenagers are hearing from the same sources we all are that social media is bad for them. So self-reports can be unreliable. And other experiments have shown that they are.  So you are pointing out some of the limitations of this research that was exposed by these leaks. But some of the numbers are eye-popping. At least of the people surveyed about 6 of teens blamed Instagram for suicidal thoughts. And an even larger number of girls felt that it made their body image issues worse. What is going on there?  So you know Facebook I feel like was a victim of their really bad own internal slide decks. As part of its public response to these leaks they released annotations to this data that show that what appeared in the headlines was really misleading. So for example in a 2500-person survey only 16 total participants agreed that one they do have thoughts of suicide and two Instagram is also to blame. Obviously even if that number is very small it is still troubling. And you know similar thing occurred with the body image. It is been reported that 1 in 3 teen girls say it makes their body image issues worse. In fact there were 150 teen girl respondents who said yes I have body image issues. And then when you ask that small group 100 of them give or take said no Instagram has no effect or it is actually making my body image issues better. And then 50 said yes it is making it worse. And that of course may be important information for the company to act on. But at the same time it may not tell you anything useful about the likely impact of Instagram say on your teenager.  Is there more reliable research from elsewhere suggesting that social media is bad for teenagers' mental health?  You know I have been looking at decades of research first on television then on video games now on social media. In big well-designed studies with thousands of participants mostly the results are tiny or null. So right now there is a huge opportunity for Facebook to go transparent release data on millions of teenagers and help researchers figure out how to make social media healthier for teens especially the vulnerable ones that we are all so worried about.  NPR's Anya Kamenetz thanks.  Thank you. 