 So if you are committed as Robert People is to speaking up but maybe just do not know how what do you do? Gail Stern runs Catharsis Productions. They provide workplace bullying and sexual harassment training for companies government agencies and the military. She joins us now from the studios of WBEZ in Chicago. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  Let me ask you about another aspect of that 2005 Access Hollywood tape which Donald Trump is on. That was aboard that bus a workplace. They were talking about Billy Bush's colleague in front of him. There was a crew there too. Is there anything they could or should have said?  I think you are pointing out a very challenging situation where you have very public powerful individuals who are controlling that spotlight. And the crew might feel in a diminished capacity. It is however likely that they have observed this kind of behavior before. We know that this is not the first time that Billy Bush has objectified the subject of an interview. And so we do not know if the crew just accepted that as that is just what he does. However if you do have someone who notices that behavior and understands how wrong it is then if they do not feel safe speaking up in that moment they should definitely at minimum go to human resources but fundamentally go to leadership because it is against the values of any decent organization to make some of its members more vulnerable for the sake of a story.  What about people who think look you know I do not get paid enough to go on any campaigns? I just want to do my job and be left alone.  We know that workplace environments whether they are military or civilian that are hostile increase the risk of sexual victimization for those who work there particularly the women. And that is a big deal. And so if you actively want to say you know I really do not care about the women I work with sucks to be them we are just going to play with this you are opting out. You are actively opting out I think of being a good person being a good citizen and a good member of whatever community you are a part of. And I think there is so many different ways to take action that you do not necessarily have to lay down in front of the train to stand up for someone else's rights.  Is it wiser to speak up on the spot or to contact HR?  It depends on the scenario. I would love to encourage as many people to do what feels right for them. If it is on the spot - we use a lot of humor in the work that we do because we find that the humor both diminishes the resistance that folks have to talking about this and gives them permission to have an aha moment without feeling shamed. Calling out that behavior in that moment and making a joke pointing out the absurdity of it like seriously? You would really say that? I hope this is satire right? And that is a way of both calling attention to the comment signaling to the witnesses you heard it you did not let it slide. And it gives permission for the person who said it to go yeah yeah yeah OK. And at minimum you can go buddy that is just not cool. And you do not need to make a federal case about it.  Gail Stern co-founder of Catharsis Productions thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you so much for having me. 