 Global stock markets were in turmoil this week. At one point the Standard  Poor's 500 Index dropped to a level almost seven and a half percent below its record high posted just a month ago. Panic investors sent the Dow Industrials down 460 points briefly on Wednesday before the market turned around with major indexes up between one and two percent on Friday. NPR's economic correspondent John Ydstie joins us. John thanks so much for being with us.  My pleasure Scott.  Can we say what caused the market sell off?  Well a lot of things came together this week that unsettled investors - a big drop in the price of oil for one growing concern about a slowdown in Europe worries about the Fed ending its bond-buying stimulus program at the end of the month. And then it was topped off by this sense of panic I think over the Ebola cases in the U.S.  And let me ask you about that. We are talking about a handful of cases. Is it a real concrete threat? What is the concern here?  Well I do not think it is a threat to the economy unless the situation changes in a very dramatic way. There was some pressure on U.S. Airline stocks when it was discovered that one of the affected nurses had flown with the fever but you know the number of cases outside of West Africa are tiny. And the countries there that are really suffering from the crisis have such small economies that they hardly register globally.  I want to ask you about the fall in the price of oil because ordinarily you would see that as being good - right? - for the economy? People pay less for gasoline they have more disposable income in other areas.  Well generally it is good. But you know the answer has become a bit more complicated now. Remember U.S. oil production has shot up dramatically in recent years because of fracking. That is been a bright spot for the economy. And if oil prices were to fall another 10 or so and stayed there it could actually hurt the U.S. industry. What was more important to investors was that the rapid drop in oil this week which was down near 80 a barrel before recovering a bit is that it was one more signal that the global economy is weaker than we thought it was just a couple months ago. And less demand for oil reflects that.  How do we estimate how much a global slowdown is going to hurt the U.S. economy?  Well it will be a drag but you know despite our complaints about the U.S. underachieving economically we are actually doing better than any other major economy. The U.S. added nearly a quarter of a million jobs in August. Company profits continue to rise. And you know most economists are still predicting a growth rate near three percent for the last half of this year. U.S. stocks have been at record highs. Many analysts argue they were priced for perfection. And some unsettling news brought them closer to reality.  So John at the end of the week what put the brakes on the slide and pumped the market higher?  Well a lot of people are crediting the president of the St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank James Bullard who suggested on Thursday that given the situation the Fed might not want to end its bond-buying stimulus program at the end of the month. Now I would be surprised if it were extended but it was reassurance to investors that the Fed is still committed to keeping the economy on track.  NPR's John Ydstie thanks very much.  You are welcome. 