 When you think about the geography of hip-hop chances are you are thinking East Coast West Coast probably not north of the American border. That is why you probably have not heard of Canadian hip-hop star Shad.     Warmest wishes of snow  the show  what I am spitting. Oh Michigan snow. Listen no I do not put on airs. I am conditioned to blow...  Shad more formally known as Shadrach Kabango is a big deal in the Canadian music scene for good reason. His catalog stretches from tongue-in-cheek odes to the virtue of thrift or to earnest meditations on race handled with equal style. We talked with Shad about his new album Flying Colours and about how a Kenyan kid from a Rwandan family eventually found a home in London Ontario and a career matching the rhyme and rhythm.   So you were born in Kenya.  Yeah.  How old were you when you came to Canada?  I was just a year old. I was a baby. I was a year old. My sister was three. And my parents were around my age but younger maybe.  Why did your family leave Kenya?  My family is actually originally from Rwanda. My parents grew up there but actually had to leave when they were maybe five or so because of a conflict around 1959. So they were refugees their whole life. We were refugees in Uganda for a while everywhere basically in Central and East Africa. Then I was born in Kenya and we were still refugees at that point. So my parents said let us try and find a place where we can stay for a while.   In that song that we just heard you talk about seeing the stories of the Rwandan genocide in the news.  Yes.  And in a song of yours from your first album you talked explicitly about the genocide. Let us play a little bit of that older song. It is called I will Never Understand.    In one of the songs on this album you describe your relationship with music as a man in love with his therapist...   ...which is kind of interesting. Can you talk a little bit more about that analogy? Are you working out some stuff when you are writing a song?  Yeah. Yeah I think so. And I do not know it is just like the easier place to go is to your music I think. It is a safe place to go to with all these like dark feelings and turn it into something that we can share and something that is hopefully beautiful.   Shadrach Kobango he performs as Shad. He spoke with us from the studios of Chat Radio just outside Medicine Hat Alberta. His new album is called Flying Colours spelled C-O-L-O-U-R-S. Thanks so much for talking with us Shad.  Yeah thanks Rachel. Appreciate it.   This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. 