 Why are U.S. arms sales to Saudi Arabia such a big deal? President Trump brought them up after the Saudi government was suspected of having a journalist killed. The president said he would look into that accusation but he was not willing to halt U.S. weapons deals over it. Jennifer Spindel is an expert in international arms transfers and is at the University of Oklahoma from which she joins us. Good morning.  Good morning. Thanks for having me.  What does the U.S. sell the Saudis exactly?  So the U.S. sells a lot of different weapons to Saudi Arabia - precision-guided munitions helicopters missiles jets - a wide range of weapons that we have sold to the Saudis in the past.  You know when we were covering the Saudi involvement in the war in Yemen someone put us at one point on a C-130 transport plane which is an American transport plane.  Right.  So it is American stuff all the way through. Does this make the Saudis dependent on the United States or is it the other way around?  You know I think that there is a little bit of both. Saudi Arabia definitely gets both military power and a degree of political support from being able to receive arms from the United States. And equally I think the U.S. in the past has been hesitant to stop arms sales for fear of angering Saudi Arabia and having that affect other U.S. foreign policy goals in the region.  You know they are not the world's biggest country but they are one of the world's richest countries. Does that make them a really lucrative market for weapons?  You know you might think so. But in general what we have seen is that arms sales are a pretty inefficient employment mechanism. Part of that is because sometimes weapons are given on grant or on favorable credit terms. But you know in general this is not like selling oranges or chairs or some other good. There is a very different logic of both trade and politics. That means that arms sales are not this lucrative big deal for the United States.  Oh. If you talk about jobs which is what the president says he is concerned about you are saying there are not actually that many jobs at stake?  That is what we have seen in the past you know? And previously Saudi Arabia had signed a 6 billion for Lockheed Martin helicopters. And that was supposed to support 400 jobs. So there is not quite the direct correlation between the amount of money that we are told that these arms deals amount to and the number of jobs that we see at home.  Sure - important to those 400 people but not world-changing for the U.S. economy. So if the president wanted if he thought it was in U.S. interests - is it possible to halt arms sales even to an ally like Saudi Arabia?  You know I think it absolutely would be possible. And thinking about the broader political context that could be a really important signal for the United States to send - you know that the abduction and murder of Khashoggi is not acceptable that Saudi human rights violations in Yemen with continued aerial operations are not something that the U.S. supports. And there is actually precedent for the U.S. doing that to friendly states and allies. Under President Obama in August 2014 the U.S. actually stopped the transfer of Hellfire missiles precisely because of Israeli operations in the Gaza Strip. That stoppage was supposed to signal U.S. displeasure and that Israel did not have a sort of blank check to keep asking for U.S. weapons.  Although President Trump has said - hey wait a minute - if I stop U.S. arms sales because of concern about Jamal Khashoggi the Saudis will just buy them from the Russians or somebody else. Is that really possible?  I am fairly skeptical that that could be a feasible opportunity for Saudi Arabia. In arms sales you know U.S. and Russian or Chinese systems do not talk to one another which means it would be really costly and time intensive for Saudi Arabia to buy and then learn new weapons systems. These things are not interchangeable.  Oh - because they have already got so many U.S. weapons systems they would have trouble backing out of U.S. weapon systems at this point.  Exactly. So the dependence works both ways there.  Jennifer Spindel thanks so much.  Thanks for having me.  She is an expert on weapons transfers and is at the University of Oklahoma. 