 If you leave Wall Street and head up the highway north a few hundred miles you reach Rochester New York the headquarters of the Eastman Kodak Company. About half of Kodak's 38000 retirees live around there and they are watching closely as the film pioneer struggles to turn a profit in the digital age. As Julie Philipp from member station WXXI reports the fate of many retirees is closely tied to the fate of Kodak itself.  I am Bob Volpe I am the president of EKRA.  EKRA represents Kodak retirees. And over the past two weeks close to 1000 retirees have showed up for EKRA meetings because they are worried the struggling company will cut off their health care benefits.  We cannot control what Kodak does all we can do is control our reaction.  Today you might hear some bad news.  For example if Kodak is bought out declares bankruptcy or simply decides it can no longer afford the millions it spends every year on retiree health insurance it can just stop providing it. If that happens most Kodak retirees under 65 will not qualify for Medicare and the AARP's Bill Ferris says that would mean a serious case of sticker shock.  When you buy health care alone it is the most expensive you can buy. When companies go buy health care they are buying for a large group of people. The individual market in New York is very expensive.  That is what retiree Jake Pietruszewski found out at the EKRA meeting.   Private health insurance could add 2500 to his monthly expenses. J.  We are spending on average 3500 a month now you throw on top of that almost double your expenses it is like - wow.   Jake is 60 years old his wife Diane is 59. He started working as a Kodak technician in 1961.  We felt secure very secure that you know you spent a lifetime at Kodak you were set. J.  The first year I was there you know I remember talking to one of the people that had been there you know 10 or 15 years. And he said oh yeah Kodak is a great company. They are really solid stable. They are as solid as the United States of America.  Jake and Diane bought a comfortable house drove dependable cars and paid cash for their son's college tuition and they stashed away 20 percent of their income every single year.  So they thought they did everything right and were in good shape to take an early retirement package in 2006 - as long as Kodak kept its commitments. J.  Our financial advisor and the programs I looked at said you know we have saved enough and with Social Security and managing our expenses - assuming we have health care - we should have enough money to last probably to our 90s OK?  But now this changes the whole equation it is not going to last into our 80s. I mean it is going to be gone.  The Pietruszewskis say they are preparing for the worst. Jake has thought about going back to work full-time. And even though Diane was recently treated for breast cancer they are also talking about going without health insurance. Weighing the options is stressful. D.  When we get together with friends and play cards or whatever the conversation always...  D.  ...gets to that. J.  Yeah. How are you doing and what... D.  I must admit there is times where that fear creeps in. J.  Yeah.  Their story would have the founder of Kodak George Eastman turning in his grave says EKRA president Bob Volpe. Kodak was among the nation's first companies to offer employee benefits like pensions and health care.  Volpe says Eastman did that in part to keep his employees happy so unions would not organize. But Volpe says there was more to it than that.  Number one I believe was just his personal belief that he had a responsibility to take care of people.  But taking care of the company is top priority at Kodak now. Company officials would not grant an interview for this story but released a statement saying they are committed to becoming profitable again and quote we will not speculate on potential future events. For NPR News I am Julie Philipp. 