 Over the last decade a unique blend of music has emerged from San Francisco. It is sort of a meld of psychedelic rock and garage punk. Today Kelley Stoltz has been called the godfather of that hazy washed-out poppy sound coming out of the Bay Area.    It is a double exposure...  Kelley Stoltz has just released his first album in three years. It is called Double Exposure. He talked to us from San Francisco and we started with listening to the title track from his new record.    Double double exposure exposure...  Let me if I may just kind of speculate about its roots.  Go for it.  I am thinking the age of Facebook and Twitter people constantly posting photos of themselves. We are essentially always in the shot. How close am I? Is this the kind of thing you were thinking about?  Interesting. Gee. No but I wish I was.  Not at all.   I mean - well you know my stepdad was a photographer so I think Double Exposure came out of that. And I definitely heard you are in the shot you know as a kid watching him work. But I think that song there is a line in that song about your little pocket mirror is covered in fingerprints. And the song was about maybe trips to the bathroom in a little dingy bar to do illicit things. And exposing yourself in multiple ways - who you are and who you are at certain times of night.  There is a lot of texture on these tracks.  Oh good.   How does that happen for you? How do you get such a rich layered sound working mostly by yourself?  I generally play piano or guitar and a melody will come you know. I make a cup of tea I go to my little studio room at noon or 1 oclock and hopefully by 7 or 8 oclock that night there is you know eight or nine instruments going and it sounds like a song.   There is a kind of sound coming out of San Francisco these days - this kind of lo-fi garage sound. You actually - I mean it is kind of a cliche - but you really did record your album in your garage right?  I did really this time around yeah.  Just out of necessity or was there something really acoustically interesting about your garage?  No. This was - I moved. You know when I saw the place I was like wow this is great. It is got a little room. Because I had always recorded in my bedroom. You know and I had my tape machine next to my bed and a piano over there and dirty clothes piled up on a guitar amplifier and the shoes were hidden behind the bass cabinet. You know I mean it was really living with the music all the time. And that was 10 years like that. You know and girlfriends either thought you were insane or super attractive because you were really into something you know. Like like let me move this babe let me move this bass guitar. Lay down over here. You know whoops. Did not know about the - sorry about that shaker you know. Yeah it feels pretty good.  Let us finish up with a little bit of music and storytelling if you do not mind. This song...  Yeah I love storytelling.  ...this song Kimchee Taco Man.  Oh yeah.  That is just kind of a crazy title.  The Kimchee Taco Man the story...  Who is this mysterious kimchee taco man?  Who is the - we are all the kimchee taco man.   And how is he doing?  But he...  Is he playing drums?  Yeah he is busy. He is real busy. And he also reminded me he said Kel Kel you know they were actually kimchee quesadillas.   Kelley Stoltz. His new album is called Double Exposure. It is out now. He joined us from San Francisco. Kelley thanks so much for talking with us.  Thanks for having me.   This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. Happy Sunday. 