   Tragedy - when the feeling's gone and you cannot go on. It is tragedy.    Whether you are a brother or whether you are a mother you are staying alive.    You should be dancing yeah.  The Bee Gees have sold more than 200 million records and are in the Songwriter and Rock and Roll Halls of Fame. They also wrote huge hits for a multitude of other stars including Barbra Streisand Diana Ross Kenny Rogers and Dolly Parton.    Islands in the stream - that is what we are. No one in between - how can we be wrong?  There is only one surviving member of the Bee Gees. That is Barry Gibb. His brother Maurice died in 2003 and Robin in 2012. Barry Gibb joins us from his home in Miami. He has a new solo album - his first in more than 30 years. It is called In The Now. Mr. Gibb thanks for being with us.  My pleasure.  Let us talk about this new album...  Yes sir.  ...And begin if we could the title track In The Now. Let us listen to some of it first.  OK.    You are the epitome of innocence. You are only my destination. And all I think about is yesterday. I need you hear in the now in my heart in my soul in the now.  Is this song about someone?  In The Now? No. It is about time and really trying to obliterate it and trying not to acknowledge that it exists at all 'ecause I think that that is what we do. You know we tend to follow a clock. And I think it is about the idea of pleasure and the idea of of having fun. And really I am in defiance of time.    Love is the game. We got no shame. And time is standing still.  I ask because I notice the album is dedicated to your mother.  Yes. Well mum passed about two months back. She created us. And she was a very often - very quite keen to tell us that. So it was obvious to me that the album should be dedicated to her.  Well let us listen to another song if we could...  Yes sir.  ...End Of The Rainbow.    So walk away slowly. Do not look back in anger. No rhyme and no reason has ever been clear. But today is tomorrow. Winters are summer. And the end of the rainbow is near.  Where does this song come from Mr. Gibb?  I think it comes from our lives growing up in Australia. And I got to sing it. I went to visit Robin because I wanted to dedicate it to him. And then ultimately...  This is your brother Robin who...  Yes. Yes.  Was he in a coma at this point?  He was in a coma yeah. I visited him at night because it was quiet. And there was no other relatives around. And so I sat next to him. And I sang the beginning of the verse and the bridge to this song.    Goodbye amigo my fair-weather friend. From humble beginnings and right to the end. I do not know if he heard me honestly. But I hope he did. And I hope he understood what I tried to tell him in the last few years which was it is OK Rob. The dream came true you know? Whatever the dream was about becoming famous or becoming a big pop group or whatever those things are when you are a kid - it all happened. And more so we had more success than we ever thought we could have.    The end of the rainbow is here.  Did you find at the same time Mr. Gibb that being so wildly successful on a level that very few people are or have ever been has a cost also?  It is OK. You know you get used to it. I have seen people like Paul McCartney deal with it. And you know he is quite a magnet for people who really want to walk up and shake his hand. And I do not think I want that kind of fame. I do not really have any qualms about privacy or things like that. I actually enjoy going to Walgreens. I enjoy meeting people and keeping my feet on the ground.  So you go to Walgreens and get dental floss like anyone else?   Well perhaps not dental floss but moisturizing cream.  Name it .  Well you know if the photos I have seen recently...  Yes.  ...On your album are any indication I would say the moisturizer's doing its job. So...  Well I just like to wander about. I enjoy driving around. And you know the weather is so beautiful here that you cannot not think life is OK. Life is OK. If you will indulge us we want to share with you. We found an old clip of you Robin and Maurice performing on an Australian TV show - we think this is 1960 - performing - let me put it this way - performing the words of a Nobel Literature laureate.    How many seas must a white dove sail before she sleeps in the sand? How many times must the cannonballs fly...  You remember that?  I do not. You know that is absolutely shocking. Where did you get that?  It was - it is on YouTube I am told.  It is remarkable. I mean it is like that was Mo right at the top you know? And Robin had a higher voice so he would always take the middle harmony. And I do not know to this day how they ever figured that out in their lives - how to do three-part harmony. I think it was the Mills Brothers. My father was a Mills Brothers fan. And he was always bringing these records home. So the idea of harmony came to us very early. But that was very moving. I have never heard that. I love Bob Dylan.  Mr. Nobel laureate Dylan at this point.  Absolutely. And no one deserves it more than him.  Is it fair to say that you had a loving but complicated relationship with your family - your brothers?  Yeah. I think that probably is the same as any big family you know whether it is brothers or sisters. And I think that we had a lot of conflict in our lives between all - do not forget it is four brothers you know if you include Andy.  Yeah that is right. Of course.  And all four of us wanted to be pop stars. Andy got to do that. And the three of us all wanted to do that. But we did it together. But make no mistake we all wanted to be pop stars in our own right. So there was a lot of conflict in that. So that is it. That is what we wanted. But you know I have got to really think that we were blessed because we had to have loved each other very much. Otherwise we could not have been together for 45 years. So that element of it you know - you can - yeah you can fight. But you never stop loving each other.  Barry Gibb - his new album In The Now. Thanks so much for being with us Mr. Gibb.  Oh thank you sir. My pleasure.    How deep is your love? How deep is your love? How deep is your love? I really need to learn.  And what a good time to note that B.G. - oh I am sorry - B.J. Leiderman writes our theme music.    When they all should let us be. We belong to you and me. I believe in you. You know the door to my very soul. 