   I never thought she would doubt me when I said I love her still.  The Lemon Twigs came by our studios the other day two brothers whose sound channels decades long past. And so does their look. We are talking peak 1970s - shag haircuts oversized tinted aviator shades high-waisted bell-bottom jeans. MICHAEL D' Well do not you think it just looks cooler?  It does. M. D' So then that is it.  That is Michael D'Addario the younger brother. He is 18. And as we talked it became clear he loves to needle his older brother 20-year-old Brian. The D'Addarios have been making music since they were tiny - and always always obsessed with the Beatles. BRIAN D' That was like our lives at a certain point. You know we would put on all the movies and all the documentaries and just pretend to be them.  Yeah. Who were you? Which Beatle? B. D' I would alternate I think. But when we were talking to each other I assigned myself Paul. And I assigned him Ringo. M. D' Yeah. It was funny. We used to have the like little replicas of the guitars the Rickenbacker and the Hofner. And like they would be really really tiny but we would play them like they were actual guitars.  How old would you have been? M. D' Two or...  Whoa. Really? M. D' ...Three. Yeah for me. I mean he would have been like 5 or something.  Yeah. M. D' But that went on for years you know?    As long as we are together I do not see what is wrong with that.  The D'Addario brothers still live with their parents in the Long Island home where they grew up. They even share a bedroom and have turned the basement into their recording studio. They first performed onstage when they were in kindergarten and second grade. And they have always been in a band together.  BRIAN D'ADDARIO AND MICHAEL D'  We are out playing music and acting our part. But we are not too high and mighty not to laugh about farts. We live large.  Now as The Lemon Twigs Michael and Brian split the songwriting. And they play everything - guitars piano drums bass cello. They come by it naturally. Their mom did musical theater. Dad is a longtime studio musician. So growing up music was all around them. B. D' It was you know a lot of that classic rock stuff - Beatles Beach Boys. There was a lot of British Invasion stuff in the beginning.  Michael? M. D' My dad loves McCartney. And you know McCartney's his favorite Beatle. And our mom loves like lyrics and stuff. Our mom loves like Tom Waits and... B. D' John Prine and... M. D' Yeah. B. D' ...Leonard Cohen. Then like Stephen Sondheim - like Les Mis.  You mentioned Broadway. You were both on Broadway I think in Les Mis and in Little Mermaid - also in TV and film. And there is one song in particular the song Beautiful that I can hear as a song from a musical. Let us play a little bit of that.  B. D'  He imagines his life in a stream. What he sees are minnows which flinch with each drop of the rain.  Brian I think this is one of your songs yeah? B. D' Yeah.  And I do not know. Am I wrong? I could totally hear this on a stage. B. D' Yeah. I think that the great songs of our time - a lot of them are from musicals. And I think that is a style that really transcends a lot of different decades.  B. D'  I cannot do anything. I am nothing. Our lives are meaningless.  What is the dynamic for you two? I mean to be working this closely as brothers is there much friction? I mean how do you collaborate so tightly? B. D' Creatively it is been pretty healthy ever since we started enjoying each other's music you know openly. M. D' We just get out of each other's faces. B. D' Yeah. But there is like a looming question of like the fact that we split the duties and we fill up an album with half my songs half Michael's songs basically. M. D' What is the looming question? B. D' The looming question is...  . M. D' I am still waiting on the - nothing's looming. B. D' It is looming so much that I will never get to it.  Do you have a vision of yourselves maybe 10 20 years from now? What does that look like? Michael? M. D' My dream is to just have a residency somewhere like Vegas or something. Wherever I live I would really like to just play the same place every week.  Brian? B. D' I guess like you know I would like to write a musical. I would like to... M. D' Not me baby. Not me.    Put on your hat. Do not stay. M. D' Just give me a guitar a drummer bass player couple of people in the audience. And I am like right there.  And a brother maybe. M. D' Maybe.    Spent all night in a chair. It was no use... B. D' I will be in the audience. I will be like when is the reunion tour happening Michael? I am dying out here. M. D'  I have been trying to write a musical for 35 years.   Brian and Michael D'Addario - they are The Lemon Twigs. Their new EP is Brothers Of Destruction. Thanks so much guys. B. D' Thank you. M. D' Thank you. 