 So we finish that report on how to be opinionated in a broadcast and that brings us somehow to our commentator Frank Deford.  That familiar old preface we so often hear usually from long-winded people is to make a long story short. I have noticed lately that that expression has become more common but to make a long story short it is been shortened to just long story short. I will even bet it is gotten initialed in the text universe to LSS. Well long story short last year I was astonished to discover that guileless fans were actually volunteering their services for free gratis to the Super Bowl which of course makes a gazillion-million dollars for the NFL and its gracious owners. Now incredibly the NFL is looking for 10000 volunteers to donate their time and effort to this year's Super Bowl in Arizona. Of course I want you to keep in mind that the NFL is officially a nonprofit even though Commissioner Roger Goodell makes an excess of 40 million a year . Lord knows what they would pay him if he was actually doing a good job. Of all the great needy charities in the world desperate for volunteers who in their right mind would pick the Super Bowl to help for free? The 2018 Super Bowl has been awarded to Minneapolis. Thanks to some superb investigative work by the Minneapolis Star Tribune a 153-page list of stipulations that the league has demanded has been revealed. Here are just some of the NFL demands for what its trumpets as America's unofficial holiday the league gets every cent of ticket revenue 35000 free parking spaces all ATMs at the stadium must be those with NFL-approved credit cards free presidential suites in top hotels. Hey volunteers maybe you can pitch in and clean the bathrooms? Now get this - if cellphone reception is not quite good enough for round-and-about then Minneapolis has to build the NFL sufficient new cellphone towers. I really like that one. And the greed goes on and on - worth keeping in mind too that the new Minneapolis stadium is costing about 500 million in taxpayer money with a sweetheart deal for the owners. Have these people no shame? Long story short last year I said I was amazed that anybody would volunteer for the NFL. Now it is simple to declare if you people in Arizona volunteer for this season's Super Bowl you are suckers. LSS.  Long story short you can hear the comments of Frank Deford each Wednesday on MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am Steve Inskeep. 