 And I am Steve Inskeep in Las Vegas overlooking Las Vegas Boulevard the Arc de Triomphe at the Paris casino just across the way from us. And we have the story this morning of a father whose daughter was shot here on Sunday. Her name is Danae Gibbs. She is a recent college graduate from Texas. She came to Vegas with friends to celebrate her birthday.  Now she is in the hospital. And as we will hear in a moment she is recovering from a wound that she will carry for a long time. Danae's father and other relatives are staying in shifts by her bedside.  We met the father Darrell Gibbs in a Las Vegas hotel in between his visits to his daughter. He had graying hair and glasses and a checked shirt and a mild expression. He works as a federal corrections counselor meaning that he advises inmates as they leave a Texas prison. How did you get into that line of work?  Honestly? I applied for a job. For 6 bucks an hour I was working with the worst of the worst in Louisiana and I figured if I was going to do anything I might as well go with the federal government. It pays pretty decent. And lo and behold 21 years later here I am.  His work with convicts is one of many factors that influence the way he thinks about the shooting of his daughter. On Saturday she was in Las Vegas sending her father pictures of her standing in front of a casino. On Sunday she attended a country music concert - that country music concert. So how did you first hear the news?  She attempted to call me as the situation was unfolding. Unfortunately my phone had - had died and just was not recharging for whatever reason. So she texted my wife. At that point she said Dad I am sorry. I did not mean for this to happen. She woke me up and said this is just a strange text. So I called her and she answered her phone. And that is right before they brought her into the OR. She was really groggy. She was apologetic. She was telling me tell - tell Mommy I love her. I love you. I said baby girl it is going to be OK. Do not - do not worry about it.  She was wounded twice by the same bullet.  She was laying on her back and the bullet grazed across her upper left thigh and into her lower abdomen.  As you say that I am thinking about angles. I am thinking about a gunman up in the hotel 500 yards away...  Exactly.  ...And she is laying down. Was she laying down to try to take cover?  When the shooting started they all dropped down. The bullet us still inside her pretty close to her spine. It will remain there.  So she is just going to be...  She will be metal-detected every time she goes through an airport metal detector . She will go off.  After learning this news in Texas her father raced to the airport missed the first flight to Vegas but caught the second. What was it like to be on that flight?  I had not flown in years so now I did not know you can watch cable TV on - on flights. And so I put it on the news and of course it is - it is everything that is going on.  You are watching videos of what happened?  Yeah I am watching you know newscasters and everybody. And you know and just hearing the - the rapid sound of the gun going off. And it just made me - you know made me - when people were asking me well how - you know I said you know I am not mad at the gunman. I am not mad. I mean guy did not know my daughter. He did not know anybody. He just - he acted selfishly. And I told somebody I am still - I am - I am a Second Amendment person. I carry a weapon. And the weapons did not do it. It was the person behind them. This guy made a conscious decision to to - to affect thousands and thousands of lives. But my daughter is strong. She is going to recover from this.  You said you are a Second Amendment guy.  Of course.  You do not blame the gun for this.  Absolutely not.  You blame the person.  Of course.  What do you think is causing these mass shootings?  A godless society.  Despite his daughter's injury Darrell Gibbs says he will not support stricter gun control. And thanks to his work in prison he feels at least a small degree of empathy for the man who shot his daughter. What is she been like the last couple days when she is been conscious?  She is been very upbeat when she is not hurting real bad. She threatened me if I started crying or breaking down that I had to leave so I - I have not done that. And I am not going to do that around her which is OK. I need her to know that - that I am strong enough to - to hold it in.  Are you faking it?  That is a pretty view out there.   That window it is a pretty view.  It is. Look at it.  All right. It is a pretty view.  You see? Now you agree with me.  That was a good change of subject.  I do not know what you are talking about.  I was impressed. I just got one more question. You were very thoughtful before talking about how this one guy affected thousands of lives. What do you think about when you consider that one person could take in his hands the power to end so many lives and change so many lives? Just one person.  This guy affected thousands upon thousands of people - moms and dads with kids little kids. Bunch of recent graduates from college. Bunch of boyfriend and girlfriends newlyweds. In a split second their life becomes wrapped up in a town called Las Vegas.   Darrell Gibbs of Texas is himself one of those whose lives are suddenly wrapped up in this town.  