 Every year in Indonesia paper pulp and palm oil companies clear land in rain forests by lighting fires including slash-and-burn techniques. And every year the smoke blankets huge areas of Southeast Asia. This year a prolonged drought may be making the fires even worse and Indonesia's neighbors are demanding something be done. We are joined on the line by the BBC's Rebecca Henschke. She is in the midst of fires in the worst-affected area on the island of Borneo. Good morning.  Good morning.  Now I gather you are on a palm oil plantation. That is one of the industries that actually do a lot of this burning. Paint us a picture of the fire and the haze. I mean can you even breathe?  I am standing looking over right next to burning peatland so it is very thick soil. Actually the fire you cannot see because it is burning underground and burning up to three meters underground. It produces an incredible amount of thick smog. So I am wearing a heavy duty mask to try and stop some of those particles going in because the air is extremely hazardous.  And the thing is this is not just Indonesia's problem because that smoke and haze has moved over to neighboring countries.  It has. That is right. It is blanketed most of Singapore for months also Malaysia and it is got up as far as Thailand. And it is meant that people there have been sick they have had to stay indoors. Also schools in Malaysia have been closed to try and protect children there from the effects of the toxic smoke that they are breathing in.  Why does the Indonesian government allow companies like palm oil makers and other companies to set these fires?  They do not allow them. It is illegal in Indonesia but the problem is that they have very good laws on paper but on the ground law enforcement is extremely poor. There is high corruption so companies can bribe lower officials down the chain to be able to clear land. Many of the land that is being cleared by fire is some of the most biodiverse forest in the world.  Is the Indonesian government responding this year to pressure from at least other countries because of this?  There is response. I mean President Joko Widodo has said he is serious about fixing it. He says that he needs time. This is not just about firefighting because peat fire is extremely hard to put out so it has to be about prevention and it has to be about restoration of peatland and also about enforcing laws that are already in place to try and protect these extremely important forests.  Thank you for joining us.  Thank you for having me.  And we have been speaking with BBC's Rebecca Henschke who is covering the fires in Indonesia. 