 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. Good morning. Renee Montagne is away today. I am Steve Inskeep. The government issues its September report on employment later this morning. And for those looking for a job the news is expected to be grim once again. NPR's John Ydstie is with us to talk about jobs and unemployment. John Good morning.  Hi Steve.  What are you hearing from economists?  Well a Reuters survey of economists is projecting about 180000 jobs were lost in September and that the unemployment rate rose to 9.8 percent. But a private report released by a company called ADP estimates that over 250000 jobs were lost in September. That would still be slightly less than were lost in August. But if the government report were that high it would be a bit disappointing.  We should note also this is far slower than the job losses of six or eight months ago at the height of the recession.  Absolutely that is improved a lot. Job losses are slowing significantly.  Still we do have a situation where the Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke says the recession is ending but thousands and thousands of jobs are being lost - additional jobs being lost.  You are right that was the headline from Chairman Bernanke. But he also went on to say that unemployment would likely continue to rise. And the reason is that some sectors of the economy continue to slide. And in the areas that are growing employers are holding off hiring until they are sure that there is not going to be backsliding. And that kind of thing could continue into 2010. A lot of people still expect the unemployment rate's going to rise to 10 percent or above.  I am just thinking of a store maybe finally business is picking up again. They finally start re-stocking the inventory they might buy more stuff but they are not going to hire a bunch of sales clerks right away.  Exactly.  So when can we expect job growth to start returning?  Well there is disagreement about exactly when but probably several months into next year. And a lot of economists including former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan think we will have a spurt of growth in the next six months as business restock their inventories like refilling the car lots after the Cash for Clunkers program. But they think growth will slow down after that spurt which could slow the growth of employment. And in fact some respected analysts including Bill Gross of the bond firm that we are in for a new normal - a growth in the one to two percent range which would be much slower than we had before this crisis barely enough growth to absorb new workers let alone push down unemployment.  You mean like the increase in population.  Exactly.  We are not even talking about getting everybody a raise with one percent growth here.  Yeah exactly.  Well and I am thinking also of the early 90s when there was recession not nearly as severe as this one now. And I think officially it was over in 92 but it was years after that before employment improved.  Exactly. Job growth after that recession was very slow and it is expected to be after this one.  What is an unemployment rate that looks like it is going to stay near 10 percent mean for consumer spending which is such a crucial part of the overall economy?  Obviously if people do not have work they are not getting paychecks. And if they do not have paychecks they are not going to be spending a lot. So that is a challenge that is the big challenge for this economy and the reason people think it is going to be such a difficult slog to get out of it.  John at some point is not there going to be some natural force that kicks in? People have deferred maintenance on their homes. They have deferred buying things they need to buy. They have deferred replacing the car. At some point you just have to go out and spend some money even if you are trying to hold back and save as so many people have been.  Well exactly. That is the theory behind economic cycles. At some point things have to improve people have to spend money businesses have to hire workers and things start to grow again. And we hope we are beginning that process right now.  That is NPR's John Ydstie who covers the economy. John thanks very much.  You are very welcome. 