 NPR White House correspondent Ari Shapiro is traveling with the president.  President Obama last visited Philadelphia just a few weeks ago. On that trip thousands of supporters cheered him on at a sunny outdoor rally. This visit to Temple University was shorter the crowd was smaller and the president cut right to the chase.  Now I am not here to give a long speech because I want everybody out there not in here.  True to his word he spoke for less than seven minutes. The president stood in front of maps of Philadelphia and urged people to fan out across the city. He said coming to a 20000-person rally like the one a few weeks ago is fun but that is not the hard part.  What I need this weekend is 20000 doors knocked on by all the volunteers who are here today.   After the Temple University rally President Obama stopped for lunch at the Famous 4th Street Delicatessen. It is a traditional Jewish deli that serves kishka whitefish salad and pastrami piled like a skyscraper.   You guys already eaten or are you...   Oh everybody is in line right now?  We are waiting for you.  Martin Samshick managed this deli for 12 years. Now his company bakes the cookies that are sold out of the glass cases up front. Samshick says he plans to vote for Democrats on Tuesday but it will not bother him if Republicans win control of Congress.  Well our economy has gone downhill tremendously. My family for the most part is in the real estate business. And it is - I am just not happy with the way the country is at this particular point.  At an arena downtown nearly 10000 supporters cheered the president on.  Bridgeport in three days you have got the chance to set the direction not just for this state but for this country for years to come.  Mr. Obama's final stop last night was personal and political. The Illinois Senate race may be the most symbolic contest of the year. The seat Barack Obama held before he became president could go Republican on Tuesday. Democrat Alexi Giannoulias is virtually tied with Republican Mark Kirk.   So Chicago I need you to keep on fighting.   Illinois I need you to keep on believing. I need you to knock on some doors. I need you to talk to your neighbors. I need you to get out and vote in this election.   Ari Shapiro NPR News Chicago. 