  The great jazz pianist Mike Renzi who died at the age of 80 September 28. He played with jazz greats that included Dizzy Gillespie Coleman Hawkins and Gerry Mulligan. Here he is with the great saxophonist Harry Allen.   But Mike Renzi was best known as accompanist for vocalists - everyone from Mel Torme Peggy Lee to Lena Horne Tony Bennett and Lady Gaga. Broadcaster Murray Horwitz knew Mike Renzi for more than 40 years and worked with him many times and he joins us now. Murray thanks for being back with us.  Thank you Scott. This is an honor really.  What stands out for you and your memories this weekend about Mike Renzi?  Well as you say Scott Mike could more than hold his own with jazz instrumentalists as we just heard. But he had a gift for accompanying singers. He loved songs. He loved singers. And what made him special is that as an improvising jazz musician - remember these people make it up this is really hard to do - he had a sound and a sense of taste along with a terrific ability just to get along with people that made him really one of a handful of great jazz accompanists.  Let us listen to one of the collaborations and this is with the peerless Peggy Lee one of her last recordings. Mike Renzi at the piano and this is his arrangement of There'ill Be Another Spring.    Do not cry. There'ill be another spring. I know our hearts will dance again and sing again. So wait for me till then.  Oh my God. That is amazing to hear. What do you hear there that you want to draw our attention to today?  Well there is so much. First of all that is Peggy Lee's song. She was a great lyricist and she wrote those words to music by Hubie Wheeler. And you can hear the dialogue that she and Mike Renzi have.    Just wait and see. I love you now...  They absolutely loved each other as collaborators and it is a call and response. But Mike's - he is never literal in his musical answers to Peggy's words. He captures the sadness and the hope that is there in the lyric and in the music. It is a conversation between close friends and the whole becomes greater than the sum of its parts. And with his piano he is setting up the orchestral accompaniment that follows and develops the song even further.  Murray what makes a great jazz accompanist?  You need a great ear an enormous knowledge of harmony and theory improvisational skills knowledge of the repertoire swing. But then I called Aaron Diehl who is one of the best jazz accompanists around today. He works with Cecile McLorin Salvant and other singers. And Aaron said the art of accompaniment can be summed up in three words. So I said what three words? He said put yourself last. He said the whole idea is to make the singer sound better than they already do and that means keeping your ego in check which - how shall I phrase it? - not every first-rate improviser can do. But a great accompanist can make a song performance sound like - it makes you go yeah yeah yeah that is the way it should sound. Right. That is it.    Heaven I am in heaven...  You know a great example is the Grammy Award-winning collaboration among Mike Tony Bennett and Lady Gaga from 2014 Cheek To Cheek.    When we are out together dancing cheek to cheek.   Oh I would love to climb a mountain and reach the highest peak.   Me too.   But it does not thrill me half as much as dancing cheek to cheek.   And I love to go out fishing in a river or a creek.  You knew Mike Renzi for decades I gather. Tell us about what you learned from him how you worked together what he was like.  You know we worked together in a variety of settings over the years. I was mostly working in these different shows as the director and the writer Mike as the musical director and accompanist. And we did nightclub acts for several singers. Audrey Levine  comes to mind. We did a musical of Mose Allison songs called Just Like Livin'. We did concerts at the 92nd Street Y and Carnegie Hall in New York. And he was great in all those very different settings. And the last time we worked together it was just a few years ago - I am starting to tear up - at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center at their annual Sarah Vaughan Jazz Vocal Competition. Let me tell you Scott. When these young singers came in to compete and they were backed up by a trio led by Mike Renzi you could just see it in their whole bearing. It was like they would been sleeping on park benches and now they were in a feather bed at the Ritz. But maybe what I learned from him most was diplomacy. He had this tremendous skill of just always getting along with people sometimes you know real difficult prima donnas getting the best out of them. He made you see that the art was the only thing that mattered.  You have some music you would like to play us out with?  You know what? Sometimes near the end of a great singer's career the voice is not what it was. The physical demands of performing have taken their toll. And all that is left is the sheer artistry of the singer. Well Mike Renzi worked very closely with Lena Horne in her later years. And there is a recording of Billy Strayhorn's Something To Live For where Mike just gives her so much support. There is a fullness and yet a poignancy and he just makes Lena Horne shine.   This is for one of my friends that slipped away.  I have almost everything a human could desire - cars and houses bear-skin rugs to lie before my fire...  Remembering Mike Renzi. Murray Horwitz - he of course is the Tony Award-winning playwright lyricist and host of WAMU's The Big Broadcast out of Washington D.C. Murray thanks for being with us.  Thank you Scott for the opportunity to pay tribute to my friend.    I want something to live for someone to make my life an adventurous dream... 