  This rich distinctive guitar sound you are hearing is a favorite of our directors here on MORNING EDITION. You will sometimes hear it between our new stories. Today we will meet the musician behind the sound. Kaki King started out busking in the New York subway system. These days she tours worldwide makes soundtracks and has even named a guitar god by Rolling Stone magazine. She is put out five albums - playing solo with a full band singing - but she says her latest record Glow is all about the guitar.   Hi I am Kaki King. I am 33 and I have been playing guitar for 29 years since I was four. That is a long time. And the first thing that pops into my head is like oh I should be way better by now.    I sort of have a complicated guitar style. There is a lot of really strong flailing and strumming and beating.   That thump you hear is my and doing that on the guitar. So it is just guitar you are hearing right now.   I wanted to make a solo guitar record really badly again. But I really did not hear that in my mind I heard something more. So there is a lot of color on this record a lot of added sound.   I did up in a studio in Woodstock New York. And we really spread it all out - we took all the instruments that we had at our disposal and just made them visibly present.   And then you throw everything that you can at a track. You just kind of go well that can work and that sounds neat and I like this bit.   Hitting bass guitar and that snare hit or what - you know that percussion that is metal pieces on top of a trashcan lid that I am kind of slipping like a pancake. So it is like...   And then you know the guitar is carrying it all which I honestly did not know that was possible. But the more we got involved in that process of adding layers of sound to the solo guitar the better it sounded.   This song is called Great Round Burn. The title Great Round Burn is a reference to the sun. There is like a beauty here but also a sharpness. Bright bright bright sunlight seem to fit. I am really pleased with this record. There is a lot of magic and mystery in where your ear's going to take you. It is almost like exploring a house - you kind of peer into little bitty rooms. You know your ear can just pick out all these little things but it can also listen to it as a whole and it is all so beautiful.   That is musician Kaki King. Her new album Glow came out this week.   It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. 