 Now for another installment of NPR's New Boom series about the generation that already outnumbers the boomers - the millennials who were born between the years 1980 and 2000. If you walk onto just about any college campus today there is a good chance you will be stopped by students who hand you flyers and sign-up sheets for clubs for student elections and to save the planet. The environmental movement has always looked to young people for enthusiastic recruits but as NPR's Chris Benderev reports might be harder to find them now.  I want to introduce you to an eco-friendly family the Curtises of Oakland California. Three generations gathered at the family home recently to talk with me. First up there was Sis Curtis. She is 84 the grandmother and she is been a longtime member of the Sierra Club and the World Wildlife Fund.  We used to hike all over the Sierras. We did the whole John Muir Trail.  Next there was her daughter-in-law Barb Curtis. She is 55.  We try our hardest not to use plastic we have solar panels we have a hybrid car.  Finally there is Lisa - Barb's daughter and Sis's granddaughter. She is 26 but already she sets the bar for sustainability in this family. For example when she met her boyfriend's family back in Chicago a while ago it became a mildly traumatic experience when she realized there was nowhere to compost her leftover food after dinner.  And at first I like refused to throw the food scraps away. It just felt so wrong. So I put it in a little bag and then I did not really know what to do with it.  L.  So eventually I just threw it away.   It actually is like physically difficult for you to just throw something in the trash that could be composted? L.  Yeah it is. It feels wrong.  Now it seems all three generations of Curtis women would embrace the label of environmentalist. So I asked them. Let us start with Grandma Sis. S.  My views are definitely as an environmentalist yes.  Next up Barb the mom. B.  I would say yes if somebody asked me on the street.   And finally Lisa who remember feels a visceral need to compost. L.  I would not because I think that the term has been corrupted.  And here's the difference when it comes to millennials - young Americans including staunch environmentalists like Lisa may be turning away from that word environmentalist. At least that is what seemed to emerge in a poll from the Pew Research Center earlier this year. It asked people whether the term environmentalist describes them very well. And over 40 percent of respondents said yes except when it came to millennials - 18- to 33-year-olds - just 32 percent agreed. That might not seem like a lot but Pew says that is statistically significant. Now Pew did not ask for reasons why but Lisa Curtis has a theory. L.  It is starting to be used more in a like derogatory way. Oh you are such an environmentalist you know you do not - you are not in touch with the real world.  And when it comes to being out of touch a guy named Thomas Hayden knows all about that.  Thirty years ago - even I cringe a little bit to remember it - but I was sporting white-guy-dreadlocks and living in a commune called the Eco-House.  Hayden's 48 now and teaches environmental communication at Stanford. His students are some of the most motivated young environmentalists in America. Two of them recently helped convince Stanford to divest entirely from the coal industry. And in fact polls have found people under 30 are more likely than other Americans to favor developing alternative energy sources and to believe that humans are responsible for climate change. Thomas Hayden was confused by all this so he asked his class who among you identifies as an environmentalist? Only a few hands went up. One student who kept her hand down explained why.  OK fair enough. I am actually an environmentalist she said but I would not say that just anywhere. They understand that if they come out saying I am an environmentalist and here's what I think everybody should do that that is immediately polarizing.  Hayden says previous generations of environmentalists including Hayden and his scruffy commune buddies just came off as scolding to the general public. And that is why Lisa Curtis the 26-year-old we heard from earlier she does not like the term. Instead... L.  I call myself a social entrepreneur.  She runs a company that helps West African villages economically and environmentally. But the words environment Earth and climate change are nowhere in her company's mission statement and that she says is on purpose. Chris Benderev NPR News. 