 French President Emmanuel Macron is trying to win a second presidential term. But he is got to beat out a list of contenders including a new figure on the far-right. Rebecca Rosman is in Paris with the story.  Macron came to power in 2017 after disrupting the traditional left-right model of French politics and defeating a far-right candidate Marine Le Pen in a runoff.   .  Macron promised to govern from the center. But seeing his only political threat from Le Pen he shifted to the right on many of the issues that spoke to her supporters like immigration law and order and the need to preserve quote-unquote traditional French values. By stealing from the conservative party's playbook Macron has left the center-right party stuck with an identity crisis. Sarah Belouezzane a reporter for Le Monde says its presidential hopefuls are struggling to distinguish themselves.  Because they have to find their way between Macron and Marine Le Pen.  But there is a new figure on the scene who could once again shake French politics like Macron did in 2017.   .  Eric Zemmour is a TV pundit and writer with no political experience no party. And he has not even officially said he is running for president. But the far-right commentator is already way ahead of the others challenging Macron.   .  Zemmour says France is on the decline because of progressive ideas and unrestricted immigration. Pollster Mathieu Gallard of Ipsos France says Zemmour may be appealing to a part of French society that is long been in the shadows.  He has very contentious positions on immigration on identity on law-and-order issues and so on. And in the public opinion of France there are many people who are very conservative on this issue.  Zemmour even has his fans within the mainstream right.   .  At a recent rally for young members of Les Republicains France's traditional conservative party some people supported the idea of Zemmour running as the party's presidential candidate. Among them was 27-year-old Matthieu Louves.   Eric Zemmour speaks the truth. No one doubts his beliefs. He is united the right with his books TV shows general discourse. And who is to say he cannot be a presidential candidate?  But most of the people I spoke to thought Zemmour was too extreme to lead the party into the 2022 election or like Alexis Chanteloupe thought Zemmour was an inexperienced populist.  He has never been elected so a lot of people are going to say like oh maybe he is the one. Maybe we need him. But I actually believe that there is a huge step between commenting politics and making its. Meanwhile Macron has been polling at around 25. That is low but still a relatively comfortable lead over all his rivals says Le Monde's Belouezzane.  Everyone says the people hate Macron or he cannot go for a second term. But you have seen his polls. We have that - what we call in French the .  Belouezzane says there is a reason they are called the silent majority. People like Zemmour may make for exciting headlines she says but for now that majority is still with Macron. For NPR News I am Rebecca Rosman in Paris.  