 A few months ago we sat down with two chief executive officers to talk about their views on why many companies are not hiring what they think it might take to spur hiring. Given yesterday's jobs report that the unemployment rate has fallow to 7.8 percent we thought we would revisit the issue with those same CEOs. Chris Gorman is the CEO of the KeyBank in Cleveland and joins us from his office. Chris thanks for being back with us.  Good morning Scott.  And Lynn Ann Casey is the CEO of Arc Aspicio a management consulting and information technology company that she founded in Washington D.C. It is focused on homeland security and intelligence. She joins us in our studios. Thank you very much for being with us.  It is nice to be here Scott.  We will begin with you Chris. In Cleveland what do these numbers look like to you?  You know I think the numbers are pretty good. The only area of some concern I think Scott is this U6 number which of course is the unemployed and underemployed. That is stubbornly hanging in there at about 14.7 percent or so. But in total I think the numbers look pretty good.  Lynn Ann?  I think the numbers look good and they really match what we are finding is happening in our business today. We are definitely seeing an uptick in the work and we have been hiring more people so it seems like the jobless numbers are reflecting what is happening on the ground in business here in Washington D.C.  Well let me ask 'ecause you point that out. You are involved in homeland security and I would just guess that that is a growth industry. Out in Cleveland with the Key Bank Chris Gorman are the companies that you are involved with hiring too?  I think we are in an inflection point. The first step I think in moving the economy forward is to stop the exit out the backdoor in terms of layoffs. And I think that has subsided. We have not seen a lot of pick-up yet in companies hiring but I really - I am an optimist. I really think the economy is somewhat of a coiled spring right now.  Lynn Ann Casey I remember the last time you told us that sometimes or not just sometimes often when jobs came open in your industry you could not find qualified people to fill them. Is that still the case?  There are more candidates applying with a broader level of experience. Not all the candidates however meet all of the requirements for the jobs so we are having to find more innovative ways to either provide training as an employer or we are looking for candidates who are taking on training on their own to demonstrate that they are willing to develop the skills you need if you hire them.  When you with us during the summer you gave advice to a hypothetical unemployed person and said candidates had to find out what they were passionate about and show companies how their skills can help those companies. We got quite a few e-mails and let me read you one from George Franks of Williamsport Maryland. I think it is fair to say his comments were shared by a lot of listeners. Mr. Frank says quote Even at the most senior levels any employee in today's workplace is more often viewed as an expendable commodity rather than an investment. Employers need qualified people who have skills experience and a level of drive. Passion comes from the vision and leadership of the executive team. I believe you wrongly put the cart before the horse.  You need passion in a leadership team and you need passion in every single employee that works for you. The more passionate they are about the business the more that we are going to succeed as a team.  I think the implication of what Mr. Franks said and from a lot of listeners we heard from was essentially saying you are expecting us to have passion when we know that the bottom line makes us expendable.  That is not how we approach people at Arc Aspicio. It is a bit of a cynical view I think. I know that most small businesses out there take every single employee they hire as an individual and they really value those individuals and what they contribute to the business. That is the way we have to work to serve our clients and that is the way we have to work to stay competitive.  Let me ask you each at the end if you could to give us an idea or two that the government might undertake in the next few months that could be good for the economy and therefore increase hiring. Chris Gorman at the Key Bank?  Scott I think the biggest thing government can do is for the government to come together and get things done for America. It is what people in poll after poll indicate that they want the government to do. And I believe our elected leaders will come through and make some of the decisions that need to be made to continue to position the United States for growth.  The government needs to pass a budget. We need to get over the possibly or threat of sequestration. That will increase the confidence in the economy and really make things move forward.  Lynn Ann Casey the CEO of Arc Aspicio in Washington D.C. and Chris Gorman the CEO of the KeyBank in Cleveland. Thank you both for being back with us.  Thank you Scott.  Thank you. 