 And now let us hear what is happening at the U.S. Supreme Court where the justices are getting down to work today hearing the first arguments of a new term. NPR legal affairs correspondent Nina Totenberg has this look at what to expect.  It is been eight months since Justice Antonin Scalia a conservative icon died unexpectedly. An hour after Scalia's death was confirmed Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell issued a statement declaring that there would be no hearings and no vote on anyone President Obama named to fill the vacancy. The seat he declared would be filled by the next president. Eight months later McConnell's been true to his word. Even after President Obama offered an apparent olive branch - nominating Merrick Garland a centrist liberal judge long praised by Republicans - McConnell did not budge. Garland has now waited for a confirmation vote longer than any other Supreme Court nominee in history. And the likelihood is that the seat will remain vacant for most of the current Supreme Court term as well. The only possibility for a nine-justice court prior to 2017 would be if Hillary Clinton is elected in November and if McConnell were to allow a hearing and vote during the lame-duck session of Congress prior to January. And that is something that so far the GOP Senate leader has pledged not to do. That means that the court will remain shorthanded and often deadlocked on some of the most controversial and difficult issues of the day. Last term the court deadlocked on a record four cases. A tie vote means the lower court decision prevails for now but sets no national precedent. In the short term that is not the end of the world. But as Justice Elena Kagan observed this summer...   A tie does nobody any good. We are there to resolve cases that need deciding answer hotly contested issues. And you cannot do that with a tie vote.  Kagan went on to praise Chief Justice Roberts.   I think enormous credit goes to the chief justice who is really tried to forge compromise who is really tried to keep to a minimum the number of cases where we just throw up our hands and say we cannot reach a decision.  But she warned as the months tick by the consequences grow more severe. Compromise is all well and good she seemed to say but last term some cases were decided on such narrow grounds that the court ultimately decided nothing of consequence leaving unanswered the question the court had initially planned to resolve and leaving in place conflicting lower court decisions across the country.   Over time that is a problem. Is that cost free? No it is absolutely not.  As the new term opens there are already indications that Chief Justice Roberts is using every tool at his disposal to manage the situation. The court has granted significantly fewer cases. And as to the most controversial cases granted last year before Scalia died several have not been scheduled for argument yet as they normally would have been. Perhaps the most contentious of these is a case that tests state constitutions that strictly forbid any direct or indirect aid to religious schools. Specifically a church in Missouri is challenging the denial of a state grant to a church-run preschool that wanted the money to rubberize the playground. But as SCOTUSblog publisher Tom Goldstein observes...  When the big item on the agenda is what kind of rubber playgrounds we are going to have at some churches you know that so far it is a bit of a yawner.  One death penalty case could have broad effect. In 2002 the Supreme Court ruled that states could not execute the quote mentally retarded. But it did not define what qualified as retardation leaving that to the states. Now the issue is back with death penalty opponents asking for stricter rules. Then too there are cases that test when state legislatures can draw district lines to minimize the impact of the black vote. And headed back to the court are tests of strict voter ID laws enacted by Republican legislatures in 2013 after the Supreme Court by a 5 to 4 vote struck down a key provision of the Voting Rights Act. Without a ninth justice though any of these cases could end in another tie. Nina Totenberg NPR News Washington. 