 Today the president and first lady visit Pittsburgh.  The Trumps are visiting days after a man opened fire inside a synagogue in the city killing 11 and injuring six. On a day of funerals with emotions still raw some including the mayor of Pittsburgh are asking why this day?   I do believe that it would be best to put the attention on the families this week and if he were to visit choose a different time to be able to do it.  Mayor Bill Peduto speaking to CNN.  NPR's Brakkton Booker is covering this story from Pittsburgh. Brakkton good morning.  Good morning Steve.  So we heard the mayor of Pittsburgh there. What are other people in the community saying about the president's visit?  Well Steve it is really a mix. A lot of people simply just did not want to talk about the president's visit. They say that politics did not have a place here at this time. Now one rabbi told me that he was busy urging his community to quote stand up for their beliefs adding that he was telling people to be proud that they were Jewish. Some expressed fears of clashes between the president's supporters and those who oppose his visit. But the White House they pushed back saying that Trump is coming to express his support for the American people and grieve with the Pittsburgh community.  OK so what exactly is it that people would want to hear from the president given that mixed reaction?  Well truthfully for some people it really just does not matter what the president has to say at all. There are some people that are just going to really ignore everything that the president says. Now there are some groups like the progressive-leaning Bend the Arc. They wrote an open letter to Trump urging him not to come saying quote President Trump you are not welcome in Pittsburgh until you fully denounce white nationalism. But not all felt that way. There is an executive director of the D.C.-based Republican Jewish Coalition. He told CNN that Trump's condemnation of anti-Semitism was quote very powerful and strong. And also Steve I attended community service at Carnegie Mellon University not far from where the shooting took place in Squirrel Hill. I met a professor Professor Joel Greenhouse who was cautiously optimistic that the president could be a consoler in chief. Have a listen.  I do not feel as if he can actually contribute to the healing process. If he could that would be really inspirational. And if that is not what will be the outcome then it is probably better to leave us to our own devices to come together. And we are doing a pretty good job at it I think.  So there you hear it. Then other people are just reserving judgment until the visit happens.  Well there is a bit of a dilemma here - is not there Brakkton? - because a part of the president's job traditionally has been to console the nation in moments like this. It is something that past presidents have done that this president has been fairly explicit about not being interested in. He is interested in conflict. He is interested in driving divisions that work for him and work for his policies and work for his beliefs. And that is where he goes.  Well I think that is right. And we heard from the Pittsburgh mayor Bill Peduto in the clip you played. And he is a Democrat. And he is telling of - he is telling folks to - he is telling the president to not come until at least the burials have taken place. Now the first funerals take place this morning with brothers Cecil and David Rosenthal. They were both in their 50s and some of the youngest people that died. And later today there is Jerry Rabinowitz. Now other funerals go on throughout the week. And one woman I spoke to named Gerry Spann  told me that of course this is a - it is a politically charged moment. After all the midterms are just a week away. And she told me - she tells me that she is not expecting much from the president's visit but she is hoping that down the line there will be political change on the national level.  I want to find other ways to commit myself to change both - both in terms of my volunteer commitments since I am retired and in terms of changing our national leadership.  OK one of the voices we have heard in Pittsburgh through NPR's Brakkton Booker. Brakkton thanks so much really appreciate it.  Thanks Steve.   How do fake narratives and conspiracy theories make it from the far corners of the Internet to mainstream conversation or even the president's Twitter feed?  Well this question carries new urgency after the events of recent days. One man allegedly sent multiple pipe bombs to political and media figures. And then another killed 11 people in a Pittsburgh synagogue. Both were involved in social media conversations that featured explicit racist diatribes before they ventured into terrorism.  Well how do conspiracy theories persist and spread? Will Sommer has spent a lot of time thinking about this. He reports on fringe right-wing media for The Daily Beast. Good morning sir.  Good morning thank you for having me.  Thanks for coming by. What is an example of how this works the way that a conspiracy theory would start and go - go national go big?  Sure absolutely. So really the most obvious example right now is the so-called caravan coming up from Honduras. We have seen the president send troops down to the border basically to respond to essentially a fiction in terms of the actual danger posed to the United States. This is something that bubbled up really on you know fringe YouTube videos Twitter Reddit threads. And now we see the president reacting to it.  Oh wait a minute. You are saying that this - you can trace this back. And some time before the president became exercised about this it was a big deal on various sites.  Exactly. So there is been some analysis that looks at really the first mentions of this and the various you know sort of fake news essentially used to promote this. You know people will take a picture of someone with boils. And then they will say oh you know this is someone in the caravan. And it is completely unrelated but it kind of ramps up the hype about it.  And you end up with someone on Fox News which I believe happened yesterday saying gosh these people might be bringing any number of diseases.  Right leprosy or what have you yes.  And the president of the United States talks about this. Has this happened a lot with the president?  Absolutely. This is far from the first time. You know I think the most obvious example is when the president claimed after the 2016 election that 3 million illegal votes were cast costing him the popular vote. That was an idea he clearly got through various channels - from InfoWars. And he sort of used that to then create the presidential voter fraud commission.  What are some of the influential sites here? The word Gab I think is new to some people because the suspect in the Pittsburgh synagogue shooting had been active making anti-Semitic remarks on Gab. What are some of the other ones that are key?  Sure. So there is various - it is almost like a mirror world for all these various sites. So you know YouTube would obviously be the main video site. Well if you are kicked off YouTube you might go to a website called like BitChute or something. And so there is various versions of Facebook and Twitter and so on.  And they do not say we are racist we are here to be racist right?  Well you know it is interesting. Some of them do actively court the alt-right. Some of them have positioned themselves more as a broader free-speech platform. In the case of Gab I think they definitely did a lot of outreach to the alt-right. And that was sort of part of their business model.  Are they are becoming more influential?  You know it is interesting. I think they are very prominent within their niche. I mean these sites are still like fractions of a fraction of what a mainstream social media site would have.  And do they get directly to policy makers? Or is there some intermediate...  Well you know we have seen the president's campaign manager Brad Parscale mention Gab before say that he would join if they would fix some technical issues. So there are some links to the mainstream Republican Party.  Will Sommer thanks for coming by really appreciate it.  Thanks for having me.  He reports for The Daily Beast.   And let us get an update now on one of the news stories that can be driven by conspiracy theories. The U.S. will deploy more than 5000 troops to the border with Mexico in an effort to stop a caravan of migrants some of whom say they eventually want to reach asylum in the United States.  Last night in an interview with Laura Ingraham the president said there are quote a lot of bad people in the caravan. And he called it an invasion.   Thousands and thousands of people on the bridge. When you looked at that bridge loaded up with people that is called an invasion of our country.  And in a tweet President Trump said quote our military is waiting for you end quote. Mexican authorities estimate that the caravan has about 3 to 5000 travelers.  Let us check that out with freelance journalist David Agren who is been traveling with the caravan. He is now back in Mexico City. He was with them just days ago. Welcome to the program.  Good morning.  First I want to get a sense of how far away this caravan is from the border. We are told that U.S. troops will be at the U.S.-Mexico border within days. Is the caravan within days of the United States?  No not at all. It is still probably close to a thousand miles away from the closest U.S. port of entry. And also many in the caravan are saying that their destination is Tijuana which - obviously across from San Diego. And that is quite a bit more distance. With any luck they would make it to Mexico City probably around the first - the end of the first week of November. And that is still quite a ways to go.  And let us check the size of this because yesterday we heard on NPR News from the Mexican ambassador to the United States who said that Mexican authorities are trying to keep tabs on this group and that it had declined in size considerably. And he thought it was about 3500 people. Do you have any way to estimate that yourself?  Nobody knows for sure. Obviously the official number that was given at the time last week was 3600 with - and just yesterday the interior minister said about 1895 people had applied for asylum. Another 500 had asked to go home voluntarily. Mayors along the route had put the number at closer to 6000. That was just based - because - on the number of people that they were serving because they are obviously providing a lot of food and obviously assistance for the migrants. So nobody knows for sure. But it would probably be higher than that.  OK. So it may be higher than 3500 according to the best information that you have. I guess the next question is how many of them are determined to reach the United States as opposed to accepting this Mexican offer of asylum or taking some other course?  Well the migrants themselves had a nightly - they tend to have a nightly assembly where they - when they arrive in a village what they will do is they will set up camp. And they will be in the town square. And they will have an assembly in which they will vote on proposals usually that meaning when they will leave the next morning what route they will take. And the proposal was read to them. And they voted to not accept it. I spoke with migrants who just simply said their goal is to reach the United States. So that was - so most of them will do their best to get to the United States.  OK. So some of them - some of them are coming to the border could be here could be in the Unites States eventually.  Eventually yes. I mean there is no - nobody's really sure how quickly they will get to - they will get there. They are probably - they are moving about 40 miles a day some days more some days less. But that is still putting them probably late November at the earliest that they would get to the border at Tijuana.  OK David Agren reporter who is been traveling with the caravan. Thanks so much.  Oh you are very welcome.  