 A chef who changed the way Americans think about Chinese food has died. Cecilia Chiang live to be 100. She started the influential San Francisco restaurant The Mandarin and taught Chinese cooking to Julia Child and James Beard. NPR's Neda Ulaby has this remembrance.   .  Do not watch this documentary about Cecilia Chiang when you are hungry. Along with drool-inducing close-ups of Chiang's specialties like red-cooked pork and fish stuffed with ginger and pepper the movie Soul Of A Banquet describes how Chiang was born into a wealthy Shanghai family with two full-time chefs - one from the north one from the south. In the documentary a former editor of Gourmet magazine Ruth Reichl says food connects Chiang to a vanished era.   She has this taste memory that goes back to a time that - there are not a lot of people alive who remember the food of that China the great food of the great houses when what you had were chefs who had been classically trained.  That China no longer exists. In 1937 when Japan bombed Shanghai Cecilia Chiang had just started college. She and an older sister fled. They walked hundreds of miles to the city of Chengdu.   Now I think about it. I was very brave.  Eighty years later Chiang told NPR about getting robbed by soldiers and hiding from Japanese warplanes.   Really scary - they fly so low - U.S. machine guns.  Chiang had to flee her home a second time when the communists took over. She wound up in the U.S. where she was both shocked and amused by the food most Americans considered to be Chinese like chop suey.    And they think chop suey is the only thing we have in China. What a shame.  So she resolved to open a high-end Chinese restaurant that served authentic fare.   Everybody said you cannot make it. You cannot speak English you do not know anything.  But starting in 1961 tourists dignitaries and celebrities from Mae West to John Lennon flocked to her restaurant The Mandarin for then unfamiliar food - tea-smoked duck twice-cooked pork. To this day Cecilia Chiang's DNA can be found all over American Chinese cuisine. Her son founded the chain P.F. Chang's. The son of one of her chefs founded Panda Express. In early 2017 Chiang told NPR how she lived to be so old.   I always think about the better side the good side of everything. I never think about oh I am going to fail oh I cannot do this oh I feel sorry for myself.  Instead Cecilia Chiang wrote books starred in a PBS documentary series and won the most prestigious award in American cooking from the James Beard Foundation when she was 93 years old. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 