 The Raveonettes are a Danish rock duo and they are doing things a little unconventionally this year. Rather than releasing an entire album all at once they are releasing one song on the last Friday of each month. And they are calling the project Rave of the Month.    This world is empty without you. Tonight tonight tonight.  The Raveonettes are made up of Sune Rose Wagner and Sharin Foo and they join me now from our studios at NPR West. Hey you too. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  Hi. Thanks.  The song we are hearing right now is called The World Is Empty . This was the first song you released for the project. This is back in January of this year. Are these things that are just kind of coming up organically in that month? Are you setting strict writing parameters? Are there things you have had on the shelf for a while?  I am not the best at having too much time to work on things so...  ...You need a deadline Sune?  Yeah I need a deadline so I usually wait.  Sharin how do you feel about that Sune's procrastination?  Yeah this is an ongoing discussion in the band because you know I get a track you know five hours before it has to be delivered which you know - but I suppose I have gotten used to it. And this has become a very Raveonettes way of working which is sort of spur-of-the-moment very stream-of-consciousness way. And I sort of hate it and like it.   You sound resigned. Although I imagine there is a kind of freedom to that. You do not have to overthink things.  Yeah.  Well it is - the whole idea is that it is hard to make decisions sometimes. You know it is like when you go to a restaurant and they have you know 10 pastas that sound really good but you just wait till the waiter gets there and you just pick one. And it is kind of like the same thing.  I get that the paralysis of too many choices totally.  Yeah.   But there is a wonderful freedom in this project which is that nothing has to be cohesive. And it is really like a blank slate.  Yeah.  And that is actually been a very positive experience for the both of us.    So I know that you have been cheating with my friend. Prepare to die. Prepare for war.  This is the fourth one that was released from the month of April. It is called Junko Ozawa. So who was this person? Who was Junko Ozawa?  Well she was a very famous videogame composer in the '80s kind of thing. So the most famous one she did was Rolling Thunder it is called.  Rolling Thunder?  Yeah.  OK. I do not know if that was on my Atari. You know I would have to go look it up.  It was. Trust me it was yeah.  Was it?   And you were just interested in that kind of techno throwback '80s videogame sound?  It is a very harsh sound obviously. But at the same time I guess when you grew up in the '80s like that it is also a very nostalgic sound.   I am going to play February's song which is called Run Mascara Run. Before I play this anything you want to say about this particular track?  That is actually my favorite. That is all I am going to say.    Seen you in my dreams of love and falling bombs. Young roses lie dead when the napalm smell is gone.  Interesting napalm and doo-wop. Kind of...   ...Contradictory vibes on this.  Perfect cocktail.  Yeah. So you a fan of kind of 1950s doo-wop?  Yes I am a big fan of 1950s doo-wop. I am actually a really good friend of Dion from Dion and the Belmonts.  Are you?  Yeah. He once took me back to his old neighborhood Author Avenue in the Bronx and showed me you know where he grew up and where they started you know the band. And we were surrounded by these crazy wannabe mobsters the whole day. He is treated like Frank Sinatra up there. They will not leave him alone you know? The people are following us on the street. Every time we walk into a store the guy gives us free Parmesan cheese.  .  And I came home with huge shopping bags of cheeses and sausages and everything Italian from - it was - yeah it is pretty spectacular.  Are these things going to exist just in isolation in this one-off project or do you imagine ever kind of putting them together and finding some kind of thread that you could sew them into an album?  They will all released sort of like as a compilation album I guess next year or by the end of the year or...  ...Yes. But you know what is going to be great is we do not even have to think about the sequence because it is going to be January February March April. And it will be probably totally schizophrenic but in a really wonderful way you know?  Sune Rose Wagner and Sharin Foo are The Raveonettes. You can hear their month-by-month songs by going to theraveonettes.com. Hey you guys thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you for having us.  Thanks for having us.    Do not cry just let me go. 