 Pink is known for her hard - fill in the blank now - attitude powerful voice and infectious songs.    Na na na na na-na-na. I want to start a fight. So so what? I am still a rock star. I have got my rock moves...  First this is Pink's 2008 song So What. But Pink who was born with the name Alecia Moore is now expressing a softer side. On a new album she collaborates with a gentleman who goes by the name City and Colour also known as Dallas Green. Now we interviewed him last year and together Alecia and Dallas sound like this.    You and me were always with each other before we knew the other was ever there. You and me we belong together just like a breath needs the air.  Dallas Green and Alecia Moore are YouMe. Their debut album is Rose Ave. They join us from the studios of NPR West. Thank you so much for being with us.  Thank you. Thanks for having us.  Yes thank you very much.  I am having a pinch-me moment. I cannot believe this is actually happening.  Being on NPR or the album's out?  Absolutely being with you .  Really? I am having a pinch-me moment. I cannot believe I am talking to Pink.  You should be very excited about it.  Oh wait. I am excited to talk to you too Dallas Green. Do not get me wrong.  Oh we have talked before. It does not matter.  What brings this collaboration together which sounds terrific by the way?  Thank you.  I like to think that it is friendship. That is what I keep saying.  Yeah it is just - it is a wild idea we have had for years and so we just decided to get together.  Let us listen to another song if we can - Open Door.    I recall the time when you and I would talk a little more to each other face-to-face through love and war.  Forgive a tired cliche but boy you two make beautiful music together. When did you know this I mean from the moment you said hello to each other? You said wait a minute the way you say hello  I bet we could make beautiful music.  Yeah it was like  hello hello hello.  Yeah years ago I played a show in Los Angeles and Alecia came to the show. And on her way to the show I texted her and was like hey do you want to sing in a song with me? And she was like OK. So she got to the show and we just went over version of one my songs in the bathroom. And then she came up and sang it with me live - and that moment where we both sang together for the first time in front of people.  This was not a public restroom was it? This was something backstage.  No this was the bathroom backstage where you know we were trying to find one quiet place back there before we went out and sang the song.  I am just imagining someone coming in and saying you would not believe what I just saw back there.   Yeah.  You are not in the girls' room. Get out.   Yeah.  But yeah we sing together that night and it worked really well.   Dear mother I hope you understand me when you hear this song 'ecause you taught me how to be right in a world gone wrong gone wrong.  Let us hear another one if we could - From A Closet In Norway.    I would rather be any place but here.   Spin the bottle and roll the dice my dear.   'ecause I cannot care.   I cannot seem to break my fall.  What a beautiful song.  Thanks.  And that is you hitting the high notes Dallas Green is not it?  Yeah.  Yes it is.  Yeah I think that is one of my favorite parts. We such high and low range together that there was never a struggle or a battle over who was going to sing what. It was just whatever felt right.  I like when you listen to the record in full. From start to finish each song has a different - it is not just two harmonies following each other the entire record. It is - each song has its - a different personality and a different - now it is my turn OK it is your turn...  Yeah.  ...Now it will be my turn. And that was not planned but it did work out that way. And it is fun also to try listen like who is that?  Yeah I have...  Whose part is that?  I was having a - I was doing that the other day listening to the songs. I was like is that me singing or is that her? Which part - we are going to have to have a talk about it.  'ecause you want to switch.  Yeah.  I know what song you want to switch .  I know. Yeah.    Seems the dying are the only ones that really know how to live. It seems the dying are the only ones that really know how to live.  Alecia Moore your father was a guitarist.  He was. He is. My dad's a Vietnam vet good old boy who can you know sing.  Big girls do not cry aye aye aye aye aye aye. You know he is another man that can sing high. And we grew up singing that way. So yeah he is fun. He is fun to get down with. He likes all the good old music.  And when did you first know maybe that you would not be Pink but that you could do this you could have a life in music?  I do not think I talked before the age of 8. I sang my sentences to the huge annoyance of my brother and family. There was never another idea in my head. I was always going to do this. People thought I was insane. But I always joke and say I signed up for this life before I got here because how can a little girl from Doylestown Pennsylvania be so sure when no one around her is doing that? Certain people just know what their life purpose is at a very young age and I just knew.    I have been wandering through this dead city with the devil's voice inside my head.  It is been delightful to speak with both of you. Thanks very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.  For this and for speaking with us. Dallas Green and Alecia Moore who has another professional name. YouMe their debut album is Rose Avenue. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you.  Thank you.    But I keep hanging on. I keep hanging on and on. 