 It is time now for sports and can we really talk about anything besides baseball today? Game 3 of the World Series last night - the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Boston Red Sox in dramatic style to go up two games to one. That is the big story. Here to bring us the side plots the footnotes the scholarly literature if you will NPR's Mike Pesca. Good morning.  Endnotes are all in vogue these days Rachel.  Endnotes. OK. So seems like the story of this series is defense in particular sloppy defense - a lot of errors by both teams. You can say last night's game was lost on a bad throw to third base by the Red Sox. So if defense wins championships which defense is less bad in this situation?  Right. yeah. This is what we are going for - put that on the banner - less bad defense. So the strange thing is - I agree with you defense does often - well we forget about it until we do not forget about it and everyone focuses on you know throws into left field and guys stumbling over third basemen. But it seemed going into the series hey the Cardinals they are a good team. They had the fourth-fewest errors in baseball so they are a good defense. They actually are not a good defense. It is just that that metric of errors I mean that is the one we have had forever but it is not - when you think about it - well not only is it not that accurate but it is not even that logical. I mean if we kind of use that thinking to evaluate say CEOs Steve Jobs would not seem like a really good head of a company because he had a bunch of errors you know he had a lot of missteps along the way. So the fewest mistakes maybe not the best way to evaluate a defense. So of course in baseball you know all these advanced stats - there is one thing called the ultimate zone rating which is pretty cool. Instead of thinking about how many balls you muffed they look at all the balls that were hit near you and they say how many could you have gotten to? You know they look at all the balls and say why not instead of asking with the muffs. And when you look at that the Cardinals are actually fourth-worst.   OK. So the Cardinals did have one advantage last night though right? They were the home team which mean - in National League rules - no designated hitter. Did that help them out?  Yeah. Not only did it help them out strangely when they did have the DH in Boston which you would figure would help Boston out the Cardinals benefited as well because that guy who is a little gimpy - Craig who was scrambling home - he got to play DH. But the big thing is either David Ortiz or Mike Napoli have to sit and they are great hitters but only one of them can play first base. And there' a problem because neither one are great first basemen. And we saw that come into play. There was a play that Big Papi could not really get to. It was a hard play. But if you look where he stretched to reach the ball might not have been the most optimum place to stretch. Perhaps a great first baseman could have gotten the ball. Hard to criticize David Ortiz. He is such a great bat. But yeah you add both those things up - advantage Cardinals.  Real quick - curveball.  Yeah. I have a cause. It is good to have a cause. So it is Halloween season and we always talk about ghosts and...  Goblins.  Yeah. There are no goblins. I did this huge - I am not just saying there are no mythological figures we know that. But the costume store...  You never see goblins at your front door.  They never come. They are too ugly. Costume stores do not sell goblins. I did a search on all the mascots there are only two schools in America nicknamed the Goblins.  No goblins. NPR's Mike - besides NPR's Mike Pesca. Thanks Mike. Yeah.  Oh thanks. Thanks a lot.  You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 