  I do not wake up every day going oh time to break down institutional racism to people before Kathie Lee and Hoda drink their body weight in Franzia and host the fourth hour of The Today Show.  That is Phoebe Robinson reading from her new book titled You Cannot Touch My Hair And Other Things I Still Have To Explain.   So because I like many of my friends and family am on the receiving end of racism and I unlike many of my friends and family have a platform - stand-up comedy and writing - it only makes sense to use it to effect some positive change when it comes to racism and eventually one day be right alongside Kathie Lee and Hoda day drunk out of my mind and ordering sensible cardigans from Net-a-Porter.   And that is my - that is like my literal dream. I know I wrote it as a joke but I am like - I love Kathie Lee and Hoda.  You are like - actually - I know. I know.  Yeah.  Phoebe Robinson stand-up comic and co-host of the WNYC podcast 2 Dope Queens. She joins me now from our studios at NPR West. So I want to talk about your conflicted relationship with stand-up comedy because you are real funny.  Thank you.  And you do stand-up comedy but you were not always so into that idea. In fact - and I am quoting you here.  Oh gosh.  You thought stand-up was dumb.  I did. I did. I mean I was a funny kid growing up and I did improv in college. I went to Pratt Institute. But I did it very informally. It was just me and some of my friends just you know sort of goofing around on campus but yeah I never really thought of comedy as a career. Like my goal was when I moved to New York I was going to write serious films. Like I was - I was - I am a huge movie buff. And so I was like I am going to write my American Beauty. Like I am going to write something like earth-shattering and like write about...  Not movies films - films.  Yeah films.  You are going to do films. Yeah.  Films - and I am going to marry Robert De Niro and that was the plan you know?   Really Robert DeNiro?  Yeah I know. He is so talented. He is so cute. I am like hey boo.  If anyone has listened to the podcast or knows you and your voice what is cool about this book is it is just you talking. Did you have to work to figure out what your voice was? People talk about that all the time. Like as a performer oh you have really you found your voice. Like you black woman who grew up in the '90s - like you have channeled your authentic voice.  Yeah. So I - as a kid I used to always write these stories. Like my parents have books that I used to write. And some of them were like really cute. Some of them were like kind of crazy. Like I have is one book that I wrote as a kid. I had a giant crush on my gym teacher. I was like in grade school. And I just was like oh he is cute. He is older. I am like - I guess I am into older dudes since forever.  .  And so I like wrote this story about how I am a princess and a scientist and all these things and my brother gets kidnapped. And my gym teacher's like this prince from this other town. He comes over and like saves the day. And I - and the last page - like I got married to the gym teacher. And we are just like chilling in bed looking through like a magazine. And I won an award for that which is like - the '90s were wild because someone should have been like hey what is going on here?   There was a great narrative. This is awesome. And so I think I kind of always took to writing and I studied writing at Pratt so it is been 14 years.  In the book you write that quote there is a predator-like mental scan that black women have to do before speaking. And then you go on to tell the story of being in a writing class in college. Can you recount that for me?  There is this whole notion of black women are angry or black women are sassy or at it or like have bad attitudes. And so you always want to be in a space where you - at least I was for a while - where I was like oh I want to be likable. I do not want people to think that I have resting bitch face or whatever which is something that no guys ever - you know do you think like Vladimir Putin is like I hope I do not have resting bitch face in this interview?  .  He is like not concerned with that which is so freeing. And so this was our senior year. This is our thesis class and we were all writing like plays and screenplays and short story collections and poetry collections. And this one girl in my class - she is very sweet but she just recently discovered that she was a lesbian which I was like yes that is amazing that you found yourself. So she wrote this play that I think she was - I think it was coming from a good place. It really was. But she wrote this play about slavery. I am the only black person in this writing class just to preface this. And basically the slave had a chance to get her freedom but she turned it down to stay being a slave at that plantation or whatever because her and the slave master's daughter were like having an affair or whatever. And it just was very bizarre. And I kind of had to speak up and be like you know I do not think any slave would be like - hard pass on freedom.   I am going to keep picking cotton so I can like hook up with this chick twice a week. Like you know what I mean? It was just really - it was tough 'ecause I was the only black person in the room so everyone was looking at me as soon as it was like a slavery thing. And I was like should I say something? Should I not say something? I was really going back and forth about it. I was like I cannot - like if you want to write a story about slavery like by all means do it but it has to come from a place that is respecting the past and respecting the people in it. And so I just told myself I cannot not speak up or stand up for myself because I am afraid that people are not going to like me because I am a black woman who has an opinion.  Phoebe Robinson - her new book is You Cannot Touch My Hair And Other Things I Still Have To Explain. Thanks so much Phoebe.  Thank you so much. Have a great day. 