 Instead of Saturday morning imagine it is late on a Saturday night a smoky bar from the days of black-and-white photos and films. This is the mood that opens the new album by Norah Jones.    The plot begins with you and me in dark-lit rooms. Your cigarette cuts through. I wear it like perfume.  After forays into folk and pop Norah Jones returns to jazz and the piano for her album Day Breaks. She joins us now from our studios in New York. Thanks so much for being with us.  Hi. Thanks for having me.  You go back with jazz to when you were a teenager in Dallas I gather.  I do. That is when I sort of first started listening to it and got mildly obsessed with it.  Bill Evans and Billie Holiday I have read.  Yeah. They were two of my favorites.    Book pages left to turn. Our chapters we should burn.  I always sort of gravitated towards ballads in general. And the intimacy of that music when it is slow is pretty special.  Let us listen to a little bit from a track from this album that is getting a lot of play now. It is called Flipside.    Try get high but you wanted me low. Good things are happening but happening slow. It is some kind of mystery from long ago.  Is it OK to hear this and think of Compared To What and Les McCann yeah?  Yeah that very much inspired this. I remember I was listening to that song and dancing and also feeling angry and you know?  Dancing and angry.  Yeah the lyrics of that song you know they are very defiant.    President he is got his war. Folks do not know just what it is for. Nobody gives us rhyme or reason. Half of one doubt they call it treason.  They are very topical. And they are still relevant so many years later. And I think that is really interesting and sad and also makes you want to shout.    You saw your reflection all over the news. Your temperature's well past 102. Put the guns away or we will all going to lose. There is just a lot going on. You watch the news we are so hyperaware of everything now too. It really will keep you up at night - guns innocent people getting hurt terrorism. I mean politics is crazy you know? It is a lot .    If we are all free then why does it seem we cannot just be?  Most of the songs on this new CD are originals by you or co-written by you.  Mhmm.  But there are a few covers. Let me ask you about a Neil Young song you do - not one of his best known ones. First let us have a clip from Neil Young doing the song Do not Be Denied.    When I was a boy my mama said to me your daddy's leaving home today. I think he is gone to stay. We packed up all our bags and drove out to Winnipeg.  And now if we could let us listen to you.    We packed up all the bags and drove up to Anchorage.  Now one of the first things you notice is you have a lot longer drives than Neil Young did.   Yeah.    They got to Anchorage. She checked in to school. I love that song so much. And I had a hard time singing those lyrics. They are so personal to him and talking about being a young boy and moving to Winnipeg. So I kind of changed the perspective. And I made it third person about a girl going to Anchorage which is something that happened to me when I was 11. My mom and I drove up Anchorage from Texas to live for a little while.    Used to sit on the steps at school and dream of being stars.  You have a young family now.  Yeah. I have two little kids.  They are what an infant and a toddler?  Yeah pretty much .  I have heard that you have perhaps as well as a microwave a piano in your kitchen.  I do . It is little. It is a little piano. It collects a lot of junk mail on top.  Ever spill oatmeal on it?  No my mom ingrained in me very young age never to put a drink on a piano. And that is always kind of stuck with me. So nobody gets to put any food or drinks on it .  Norah Jones in New York. Her new album is Day Breaks. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you. 