 The man who co-created Wolverine Swamp Thing and a whole lot of other comic book characters died Sunday at the age of 69. NPR's Glen Weldon says Len Wein was a writer an artist and an editor whose love of superheroes was clear on every panel.  Len Wein wrote and edited the adventures of many well-known superheroes over the course of his career - your Batmans your Hulks. But he created Wolverine with artists John Romita Sr. and Herb Trimpe. Hugh Jackman played him on screen for years. With his extendible razor-sharp adamantium claws he is not much of a talker.   He is more of a grunter and slasher and stabber.   Wolverine was an innovative superhero in several ways. He was hotheaded. He was hyperviolent. He was Canadian. Most importantly he was an antihero one of an emerging breed of characters who strained against the good-guy-versus-bad-guy formula of old-school comics. As Wein explained in the 2016 PBS documentary you could not pin the guy down.   I think from my perspective what makes Wolverine so attractive is the unpredictability the belief that he does not give a damn about anybody but himself and spends his whole life proving that is not true.  Wolverine was something comics had not seen before and so was Len Wein. When he got his first freelance gig in 1968 he was a young man a member of the first generation of creators who were also fans. They would grown up on comics. To the old guys who would been turning out stories for decades comics were a steady paycheck. But to Wein they were a passion. He saw these characters as our contemporary myths - modern-day takes an Achilles and Gilgamesh.   There is something in the human psyche that wants to believe we have a bigger capacity than that which we demonstrate to one another daily that we can be all of these things we wish we could be.  Once he got a shot at writing superheroes he started delivering characters and stories he knew fans like him would appreciate. That meant digging a bit deeper going a bit weirder - case in point Swamp Thing. In 1971 with artist Bernie Wrightson he created the tragic muck-encrusted monster of a man who tries to do good in a world that shuns him. A few years later he and artist Dave Cockrum completely revamped the X-Men expanding the roster of characters with new recruits like Colossus Nightcrawler and Storm characters who have since earned a place in the hearts of fans who could tell that Len Wein was one of them. Glen Weldon NPR News. 