 South Carolina Governor Mark Sanford has apologized for a sex scandal and apologized and apologized some more. But he insists he will not resign. Yesterday he went on a conservative radio talk show to take calls directly from the public. Julie Rose of member station WFAE tells us how it went.  Governor Mark Sanford's been making the rounds of Rotary Clubs and political groups for nearly three months now on what people in South Carolina have dubbed his apology tour. But yesterday afternoon was the Republican governor's first time on live radio taking calls from regular folks since admitting to an affair and taking a secret trip to Argentina to visit his girlfriend. So a lot of people were expecting fireworks.   News radio 560 WVOC.  And for the first hour of the show - the hour that Sanford was not in studio - things were pretty feisty.  I have never seen anything this big a disgrace. I voted for him twice. And I am going to tell you I guess that is why I have got a reason to gripe. Did not vote for him...  Linda you are on WVOC. It is good to have you with us.  First of all you do not go AWOL. He is the governor 247. And to not be there that is just not right.  But then Governor Sanford came on the show and things changed dramatically. The calls were largely supportive giving Sanford plenty of room to extol his record and plans for his next 16 months as governor. WVOC radio host Kevin Cohen insists he did not screen the callers many of whom sounded like this one who thinks Sanford's getting a raw deal in the press.  The media's just overplaying this and making it worse than what it truly is.  Again you know if you are the guy messed up and I am the guy who messed up I am not going to be casting stones at again where folks are or are not coming from. I will simply say what I said before which is some people have seen it in their best interest I think to keep things stirred up perhaps a little bit more than maybe ought to be the case.  The lieutenant governor and the majority of state senators have already called for Sanford to step down. Late yesterday the speaker of the Republican-led House of Representatives Bobby Harrell joined the chorus.  The issues we have facing our state and the work that needs to be accomplished is just too important for us to spend the next year bogged down with the distractions that Governor Sanford's actions have created. For the good of our state Governor Sanford should step aside.  Sanford insists he will not resign leaving impeachment as the only option for state lawmakers who want him out. But impeachment proceedings would be costly and could get messy enough to hurt lawmakers seeking reelection.  If they have a special session it actually does not happen they cannot seem unified and they do not have enough votes then it would absolutely backfire on the legislature.  For NPR News I am Julie Rose in Charlotte North Carolina.   This is NPR News. 