 This week is the Federal Emergency Management Agency or FEMA was coordinating the national relief effort in Hurricane Irene's wake. Texas congressman and Republican presidential candidate Ron Paul was calling for the agency's elimination. He said quote FEMA has one of the worst reputations for a bureaucracy ever. It is a system of bureaucratic central economic planning which is a policy that is deeply flawed. Now that statement drew attention. But it is utterly consistent with the congressman's libertarian philosophy. We spoke with Ron Paul earlier this week and asked him to explain that decision. Representative  I got that impression from having lived on the Gulf Coast and been a congressman here for a long time because if I add up all the phone calls and all the work I have had to do with all the agencies of government FEMA has caused more problems than all the rest put together. And most of the time it is the fact that when FEMA comes in and there is a disaster they interfere with the local people. The local people the landowners cannot do what they want. And then when they are promised payouts they cannot get it to you know they cannot get their insurance benefits so we always have to go to bat for them. But I was opposed to it long time before I knew it was so inefficient and that was when they introduced the notion that the federal government should guarantee this insurance because literally what that does it eliminates the principle of insurance. And insurance is supposed to measure risk. And if the government takes care of it there is no more risk. As a matter of fact it encourages risk. It encourages the moral hazard that people who like their beach houses are more likely to build there because what the heck you know cannot get my insurance the taxpayers will bail me out. But the government does not have any money. And as a matter of fact FEMA is broke. They are about twenty billion dollars in debt. So if you add all that up it does not have a very good reputation and I think that there is other ways we could handle these problems.  First when you talk about insurance make it possible for people to build their beach houses back...  Mm-hmm.  I am sure you would agree you would have to point out now there are a lot of people sitting on rubble in Vermont who never thought they had a beach house. Irene was a hurricane that spread widely beyond what would be if I might refer to it this way the traditional points of impact. And in a way is not that also part of the whole idea of getting the federal government involved? Because these disasters do not know state boundaries.  The question is why? Why does all of a sudden somebody in Vermont need to get insurance from you if you live in Alexandria? You know I mean what is the moral principle there? I have lived in Texas for a long time and I have had a fair amount of damage and I call up my insurance agent. So people should have responsibility for themselves. Their neighbors should help. The state should help. The community should help. State Guard should help. And you know under extreme circumstances our Military can surely have assistance in rescue operations. But they cannot if they are over there and fighting wars that should not be fought.  So when you were against foreign adventures in Iraq Afghanistan or Libya you call those foreign adventures that is all part of the same philosophy of when you say that FEMA is a bad idea.  Yeah. It is all the use of force. See a person who truly believes in liberty rejects the use of force to change people mold people change the economy or tell other countries how to live. So I apply the same principle down the line. You know I do not want to force people. They have to follow laws but the laws are that you cannot hurt other people. And fortunately for me the little bit of a test we have had for that system it is been the most prosperous system ever known to man. So I approach it as a humanitarian. I am convinced to be a humanitarian you have to believe in property and free choices both individually as well as for the marketplace.  Mr. Paul you announced last month you are going to retire from Congress when you term runs out in 2012. Of course it is possible you will be elected president. Are you in any way handing off your political name to your son the senator from Kentucky?  Well we have never talked about that at all. I mean he is very interested in his views and mine obviously are pretty close so but will he is a pretty independent person...   And I am sure he will I am sure he will continue. But I do not think you can hand reins off to anybody. You know I hope he continues you know to do what he is doing and I will probably in or out of office or whatever because we believe that the principles of liberty are so important.  You won a straw poll at the Republican Leadership Conference in New Orleans. You finished a close second in the Ames Straw Poll in Iowa. You are raising money  may I  like the federal government.   Better than the federal government perhaps at this point.  We are very solvent I will tell you that.   So how do you...  No debt in my campaign.  So how do you have an answer for people who say yeah but he will never be president?  I will say how do you know? I do not know that for sure. You know nobody knows what the future will bring. So I do not worry about that. I am running a race. I am running hard and I know where the finish line is and we will see what happens.  Republican presidential candidate and congressman from Texas Ron Paul speaking with us from Clute Texas. Thanks so much sir.  Thank you. 