 Many of us try to be good environmental citizens and recycle plastic bottles or give up plastic grocery bags altogether. Bottles and bags though are just part of the problem. Floating in our oceans are microplastics tiny bits less than 5 millimeters in diameter. Hundreds of citizen scientists around the world are helping experts assess the threat posed by microplastics. Reporter Galen Koch sent us this audio postcard about the effort.  Teresa Carey and her husband live a nomadic life on their sailboat. Today they are moored in Rockland Harbor Maine where Teresa is taking water samples from her dingy.  And then to collect the sample we just submerge it under and let it fill.  Teresa holds the jar of clear ocean water up to the sun.  So there is a lot of plastic in there. You cannot see it but we know it is there.  She will send this sample just a few hours up the coast to Abby Barrows' lab in Stonington Maine. Abby is the partner scientist on the Adventurers and Scientists for Conservation's microplastics program. Her lab is sparse. There is hardly any furniture but there is a giant stack of boxes. These boxes come from volunteer adventurers. Kayakers sailors and scuba divers send the packages wrapped tightly in layers and layers of packing tape.  Sometimes adventurers are extremely ambitious with how they wrap up a box and it takes me 10 minutes to get into the sample.  Abby pulls out glass metal and plastic water bottles. Water comes from the Arctic remote areas of the Pacific really from all over the world. And its Abby's job to filter each sample.  So a pretty simple setup here. We have a lot of glassware that is hooked up to a vacuum pump filtration system.  She is looking for tiny bits of plastic that get caught on the .45 micron filter.  So really really fine mesh basically not allowing very much to pass through other than water.  Abby counts the plastic bits under a microscope.  I hear something as well...  I notice a glass dish with a really dirty filter. It is from a sample taken 100 miles off the Canary Islands. On the filter there are about 1900 pieces of plastic. Can I look at what that looks like?  Uh huh this one's crazy. I mean blow...  There is a big thing.  ...Blow your mind.  The filter is full of tiny blue and hot pink squiggles. These are mostly microfibers from things like synthetic clothing and fishing rope. Nineteen-hundred is a high number but it is not unusual for Abby to find plastic in the water.  So we have processed 798 samples and of those samples 751 of them have contained plastic.  That is 94 percent of the samples. And all that plastic is here to stay. It does not go away. It just gets smaller and smaller. In the coming year Abby hopes to publish results on the microplastics project's findings. But for now the project's major success is in raising awareness among its many volunteers.  They are contributing to a project and getting real results. And so I think that the education piece is the most valuable component of having all these different people involved because they can be like I went to this beautiful place took a sample of water had such a great time. I got the sample back and it had 20 pieces of plastic in it. Wow.  Just because you cannot see it does not mean it is not there. For NPR News I am Galen Koch in Stonington Maine. 