 The storm has passed. Now the cleanup begins.  From New England to the Gulf Coast what it will take to recover from Hurricane Ida and what it will take to be prepared for the next major storm.  I am Scott Simon.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   We will hear what happened to some of New York's most vulnerable residents who were trapped in basement apartments during flash flooding this week.  Also with U.S. troops out of Afghanistan a new set of challenges for the Biden administration. KRISH O The evacuation of Afghan refugees was chaotic but their resettlement does not have to be.  And we will hear from nurses in an Arizona hospital as their ICU is overwhelmed by COVID-19 patients.  Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   Search efforts are still underway for missing people in the northeastern United States after what was Hurricane Ida dumped record rainfall earlier this week.  At least 49 people were killed as the region was hit with flash floods and tornadoes unleashed by Ida and now a long and uncertain path to recovery.  NPR's Hansi Lo Wang has been reporting on the storm's aftermath from New York City and he joins us now. Good morning. HANSI LO WANG  Good morning Lulu.  Hansi I mean terrible terrible images from your region. What do things look like there today?  Well many people whose homes were flooded out are still cleaning up from this storm. And crews are repairing damaged roads. And New York City's subway system the one that millions of New Yorkers rely on to get around - that is still slowly coming back to full service. And as you mentioned earlier the search is not over yet for potentially more victims from the storm.  I mean New York has had such a tough time recently. What is your sense of what recovery will look like this Labor Day weekend and beyond?  Well those who were flooded out and have their own insurance are likely busy filing claims. And by the way officials are reminding anyone who has not started cleaning up yet to remember to take photos and document the damage to make it an easier process for filing claims. And you know across the region officials from FEMA are also out starting their assessments of the damage. New York Governor Kathy Hochul laid out this process while she was touring through recovery sites this week. Let us listen.   In order to be reimbursed by FEMA we have to give them literally the bill. We have to tell them what the cost of this is and how we are going to work with our local governments to literally go street by street and calculate the cost of what this event has resulted in.  I should note FEMA assistance is available to U.S. citizens and green card holders but generally not to anyone who is undocumented although there are a few exceptions. An undocumented parent of a child with U.S. citizenship or a green card can apply for the child. But many people living in the basement apartments in New York City where there was so much flooding may not qualify.  I mean yeah there were just terrifying videos of water rushing into some of these homes. I mean is there any other kind of help out there for people hit by these floods?  It will most likely come in large part from local community groups and charities. And you know this storm is another reminder that there are major barriers to getting assistance for people who are regardless of their immigration status are involved in these unstable living conditions that may not be up to code for example. We are talking about potentially hundreds of thousands of people living in basement apartments by some estimates. And I talked to Annetta Seecharran of Chhaya Community Development Corporation based in Jackson Heights Queens. She is been visiting some of the homeowners of these flooded basement apartments. Let us listen.  They have lost their personal property. Their homes have been damaged. But they are afraid of asking for help taking help because their unit was quote unquote illegal. And then we have tenants who are vulnerable for many reasons and they are most certainly low-income. That is why they live in a basement. These are the people who are least likely to get the help they need and least likely to seek the help they need.  I mean there is also been a lot of talk from officials in New York and New Jersey in the wake of this about the need for better infrastructure when we are facing the threat of climate change. How quickly can that be addressed?  Well those are going to be projects that likely will not be finished in time for the next major storm given we are still in the middle of hurricane season. And in preparation you know right now there is the threat that many people living in these vulnerable housing situations still potentially face. And city officials in New York say you know they are going to try to evacuate people maybe put travel bans in place. But these are potential short-term solutions to long-term problems.  That is NPR's Hansi Lo Wang reporting from New York City. Thank you very much.  You are welcome Lulu.   Now hundreds of miles from New York City Louisiana is also assessing damage from Hurricane Ida. That is where the Category 4 hurricane made landfall and where President Biden traveled yesterday.  His trip came as the administration faces a number of significant challenges from the Afghanistan withdrawal to another COVID surge. NPR's White House correspondent Franco Ordoez joins us. Franco thanks so much for being with us. FRANCO ORDOEZ  Hi.  And please begin by telling us about the president's visit yesterday. ORDO Well the president met with local leaders and took a tour of some of the harder-hit areas. He walked the streets met with residents and gave some hugs to families who are hurting. And he said it is time not just to make repairs but to make things stronger.   We got to not just build back to what it was put the same old poles up. We got to build back better. We got to build back more resiliently. And we got to make sure we do the same thing across the board. ORDO You know this of course has echoes to what he says about his economic plans. But Biden tried to emphasize you know Republican support as well and said this was not about politics but helping people.  Want to turn to Afghanistan now because of course even though U.S. troops are out of the country there are still thousands of Afghans who helped the U.S. over the course of the 20-year war who now need to be resettled. How is the Biden administration approaching this? ORDO It is a big challenge. Refugee groups have been told to be ready for about 50000 vulnerable Afghans. I spoke with Krish OMara Vignarajah president of the Lutheran Immigration Refugee Services . She said right now groups like hers have more questions than answers.  The evacuation of Afghan refugees was chaotic but their resettlement does not have to be. We need to see White House-level oversight of an effective and efficient whole-of-government response. ORDO Now President Biden is bringing in more help. He tapped former Delaware Governor Jack Markell to be the White House point person to coordinate all the work.  When the Obama administration worked to resettle Syrian refugees in 2015 they ran into opposition. This is a - it is a touchy subject for many Americans is not it? ORDO Yeah that is right. There are some Republicans who oppose resettling the refugees warning they could be dangerous. The White House has really pushed back citing a robust screening process on U.S. military bases and sometimes in third-party countries beforehand. And Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas said yesterday that the United States has a moral imperative to protect those Afghans who helped the United States during the two decades of war.  Franco I do not want to reduce compelling human situations to just politics. But there are political implications for the Biden administration in this tough period too are not there? ORDO There really are. And it has been a tough few weeks - the hurricane a chaotic withdrawal in which 170 Afghans and 13 U.S. service members were killed but also Scott the resurgence of the pandemic. The delta variant is ripping through parts of the country where vaccination rates are lower. And Biden had some tough job numbers which the president blamed on the spreading variant. A new NPRPBS Marist poll shows his approval ratings are down to just about 43. Biden ran for office promising to be a steady hand on the world stage and bringing the country back physically and economically from the pandemic. He will talk this week about his next steps to deal with the delta variant. And he really also wants to talk about his domestic agenda you know the big spending package he wants Congress to pass which has been overshadowed during this really tough time.  NPR White House correspondent Franco Ordoez thanks so much for being with us. ORDO Thank you.   And speaking of the pandemic doctors and nurses on the front line of the coronavirus pandemic in the U.S. are treating patients they should not have to treat.  Intensive care units across the country now overflow with people who have not gotten a COVID-19 vaccine a vaccine that medical experts say helps prevent the most serious complications of the disease.  And it is taking a toll on those health care workers in places like Arizona where 1 in every 400 people has now died from COVID-19. Katherine Davis-Young of member station KJZZ in Phoenix has been reporting on this and joins us now. Good morning.  Morning.  I mean just give us a sense of how Arizona has been doing during the pandemic.  Here in Arizona like in so many states the pandemic is political. Governor Doug Ducey and the Republican-led state legislature have banned many types of mask requirements or vaccine mandates. And the state had some business restrictions in place during the prior two waves but Ducey has resisted that kind of thing this time around. Ducey has recommended that Arizonans get vaccinated against COVID-19. But less than half of people here are fully vaccinated. That is well below the national average. And COVID ICU bed use in our state increased 300 throughout July and August.  I understand you actually had the chance to visit an ICU this week. I mean what did you see?  I was able to go inside Valleywise Health Medical Center in central Phoenix where each COVID patient is sealed off behind the glass doors. They are sedated and they are covered in tubes and wires. The nurses there are wearing face shields masks full-length gowns. Nurses Sara Reynolds Jeremy Neagu and Ken Neal say this unit was empty just a few months ago.  We are tired. We do not want to do it again.  It is a lot. It is heavy.  This whole thing is just tragic.  The more aggressive delta variant of the virus makes patients deteriorate more quickly and recent patients are younger. Nurse Jeremy Neagu says in Arizona's first waves ICU patients tended to be in their 70s or 80s.  This wave is like - we had a 24-year-old die today. We have had a couple of 30-year-olds a couple of 40-year-olds. I mean it is just crazy. And they have all been unvaccinated.  I mean it is so demoralizing for them to know I suppose that many maybe most of these deaths could have been prevented if people had actually been vaccinated.  Right. That is exactly what they told me. And they are also frustrated by misinformation that is out there about COVID-19. Here's nurse Ken Neal again talking about a patient he treated recently.  The first thing he said was where am I and what am I doing here? When she said you have d oh COVID's not real.  These nurses want Arizonans to take the pandemic more seriously. But outside the hospital they say they feel like life is just back to normal that people do not seem to care about the pandemic as much anymore and that this time around health care workers have been left to fight the virus alone.  We have heard a lot about how burned out and exhausted health care workers have been during this pandemic. And you know there does not seem to be a reprieve on the horizon.  I think it is just incredibly hard for them. Many hospitals are short-staffed. This one's been down more than 20 nurses per day recently. They have been trying to give out bonuses and find travel nurses to bring in. But they say it is just hard to keep up with this surge. And after a year and a half it is not just the number of patients coming into the ICU that is taking an emotional toll on these nurses. It is the number of patients who never get to go home. Ken Neal actually showed me a slip of paper he keeps folded in the pocket of his scrubs. It is a list of reminders he is carried with him throughout the pandemic.  I tell myself every day it is not always about me. Everything is not in my control. Everything is not for me to fix personally and - sorry - it is not always my fault.  That is incredibly hard to hear.  Yeah. Before e than 20 years in the profession Neal says he would only ever had one of his patients die. Now he says he is lost count.  That is Katherine Davis-Young of member station KJZZ in Phoenix. Thank you very much.  Thank you.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday September 4. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. UP FIRST back Monday with news to start your week. You can follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And for more news and interviews books and music you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. You can find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  