 Amy Ryan probably best known for her role as Holly on The Office is a telemarketer for a funeral home. And they meet awkward. Their dates are frustrating and uncomfortable but somehow they manage to bumble together into a relationship.    I like talking to you.   I should invite you up but my place is a mess. I am going to clean it and I will invite you up next time.   Mine's worse.   I am usually neat. Well not neat but not disgusting.  Thanks for coming in.  Good morning.  Good morning.  Now this film comes from an off-Broadway play that you starred in Mr. Hoffman right?  Mm-hmm.  And directed also the play?  No. No. I just acted in it. Peter Dubois directed it.  So why did you choose this as your first film to direct?  Well it was more of - it just kind of chose us. We originated this play at the LAByrinth Theater Company. John Ortiz and I were co-artistic directors of the company at the time. He plays Clyde.  Clyde is your character's friend in the film. And he is the one that sort of helps Jack get confidence and introduces him to Connie.  And John Ortiz basically said well why do not you direct the film you know because I would been directing with the theater company for so many years. I was like well maybe. And I thought about it and then I did start to see it as a film.  John's a great instigator.  Amy describe your character in the film.  Connie is - I say she is someone who has not had much luck at love. I think when we meet her she is at that point in her life where she knows that she needs to make a change. She needs to say yes even if the butterflies in her stomach would rather her stay home and read a book. But she knows it is now or never so she accepts a dinner date not knowing anything about this man named Jack that her friend Lucy's going to set her up with.  Lucy is Clyde's wife in the film. She also works with Connie in the funeral home. And she is played by Daphne Ruben Vega.  And it goes pretty bad.   You know she has a near nervous breakdown in the bathroom you know 10 minutes into the dinner. But yet he is still there.  Well I want to play a clip of that terribly uncomfortable first date that the two of you have in the movie. The character of Connie is talking about her father who was in a coma and then miraculously...   As you would...  ...comes out of it.  ...on a first date.  First date.    He talked in a soft voice you know? And I thought oh he is a zombie state you know where you stay around because there is some unfinished business you are responsible for like taking care of my mom.   Yeah your mom of course.   He went back to be with her at Village Care Facility.   You know that is - God got up from a coma went home.   And then he fell down and hit his head in the hallway and then he died.  I have to say When I saw this in the movie theater I laughed a huge belly laugh out loud and then looked around to make sure that I was supposed to be laughing.   Because at this point in the film you do not know if it is - is this a comedy is this serious am I the only one who thought that this was a hilarious moment? But I have to ask. This is one of those difficulties of the character. You are sad. You are lonely. But you also provide most of the laughs in the film. How did you balance this uncomfortable humor?  Well I tried to just play the truth of her really. And I mean I knew it was funny reading it as well. Humor comes from tragedy really.  Yeah.  Well Philip Seymour Hoffman you are sitting there in the scene. You are in just about every scene in the movie. And you are also directing it. So as you are directing that scene in particular the first-date scene are you concentrating on what you are doing and seeing it from outside from the director's perspective?  That was about halfway into the shoot three-quarters of the way into the shoot that scene.  So you were getting good at it.  Yeah I would be off camera and I would have to give Amy a note or suggestion - you know what I mean? - about something. In fact in that scene I think there was one part where we kind of did we did a bunch of times.  Yeah.  Remember? And one of the takes we use it is really a great take near the end before you run to the bathroom. It is a take that you stopped. You know she wanted to do it again and I was like actually that was really good.  I must have been getting to somewhere too personal.  Yeah it was like...   Screw this.  But that is kind of what happens a lot. That is why you have directors because the actors the better they get sometimes yeah - I mean the more unaware of themselves they are which is you know why you want a third eye there.  The right thing does not always feel comfortable.  I should say the title of the film Jack Goes Boating refers to Jack's desire to take Connie on a boating date in Central Park. But first you have to learn how to swim. But that means Philip you spent a lot of time in a bathing suit. As a director were you ever tempted to shoot yourself from a little more flattering angles?  Human beings up close and personal are the way they look up close and personal.  Did you notice his Botox?   And that is the way he looks do you know what I mean? So it is - it would be pretty weird to try to if I started shooting the scene based on how I wanted to look you know and how that - and those swimming pool scenes are essential to the relationship between Jack and Clyde. You see these two men be gentle with each other.     That is good but Jack that is good but go under. Make the bubbles under the water then come up take a breath then go under bubbles come up - and get a rhythm going. We will do it together. You ready? But it is good. You ready? Breath.   Under.   You speak about your character's relationship with his friend Clyde as if it is the love story at the center of the film.  I think it is it is. I mean it is not - I mean I do not think it is the primary story but I do not think - I think all three stories there are three relationships happening - you know Jack and Connie and then Clyde and Lucy and Jack and Clyde. All three of them hold the same kind of weight really you know in order for the Jack-Connie to actually pay off - you know because - and you know ultimately you feel the evolution of the guys' story just as much as you feel the evolution of any of the other stories. And that was very important to me.  Well Amy you have seen Philip Seymour Hoffman go from film actor to film director. Does this tempt you to try your hand at directing?  Oh no no no no. I do not have that broader view of the big picture. Yeah I am a good champion for a character through that story. I will defend them. But it is hard for me to see - to take responsibility for the whole story. So no it is a skill I do not possess. But I am absolutely in awe of Phil for doing this and doing it beautifully.  Philip Seymour Hoffman is the director and star of the new film Jack Goes Boating. He joined us with his costar Amy Ryan from NPR's New York bureau. Thank you both so much for coming in. This was great.  Thank you.  Thank you. 