 A newly opened computer school in Paris has been overwhelmed by about 60000 applicants. The school is called 42. It was founded by a telecom magnate who says the French education system is failing young people. And his aim is to reduce France's shortage of computer programmers while giving those who have dropped out of school a second chance. NPR's Eleanor Beardsley sends this report.  Suitcases and sleeping bags are piled up in the hallways of 42 and people are stretched out on mattresses in some of the corners. There are showers and dozens of colorful bath towels. We are going up a staircase and there is towels on both sides on the railings. Living here for the next month are some of the 4000 potential students who already made the first cut by passing cognitive skill tests online. Now they have to clear another hurdle. They are thrown together and challenged with computer problems for 15 hours a day. Only 800 students will get a place says 42's director Nicolas Sadirac.  It is very very intensive. It is kind of selection but on the long term. So we do not just do an examination we spend four weeks of choosing each student.  The only criteria for applying is to be between the ages of 18 and 30.You do not need money and you do not need a particular level of academic achievement. A third of the applicants do not even have high school diplomas. Sadirac says they are not looking for how much students know but how they think. One of the schools main goals is to unearth talent in poor areas where kids do not fit into the traditional French academic mold. Youth unemployment in France is at a 14-year high. At the same time French companies cannot find enough IT specialists and thousands of young computer enthusiasts cannot get training. That prompted 42's founder Xavier Niel to invest 90 million of his own money in the school. Niel the creator of France's third largest telecommunications company Free says the social elevator in France is broken.   If you are the son of a blue collar worker you are going to be a blue collar worker. Children of elites stay elite. We have 200000 kids a year who drop out of the French school system and have no hope. They become a drag on society. We want to help these young people take control of their lives.  For example there are no teachers. Students learn by solving problems.  We do not want to teach them stuff we want them to find solutions on problem. Because we do not know the problem in the future. So we are creating students able to learn by themselves.  Sadirac says in the past 20 years the world will change at a staggering pace. 42 is looking for young people who can think outside the box. He says formal academic training can sometimes hinder that.  Because when you go to academic you are trained to follow models reproduce models and not try a new one. You are so much trained that you are not able anymore to create new. So if we want to make people innovative or creative we need to get out of this system.  During their final year 42's students will work together on a huge project known as a masterpiece. Much like an apprenticeship they build their talents and learn from each other. Eighteen-year-old candidate Lloyd Cochet loves the schools philosophy.   I had a hard time following in school. I cannot concentrated and they forbid us to talk in class. And here talking together and passing along tips is the key to succeeding.  Outside on the sidewalk 27-year-old Omar Marzougi is taking a break. His parents emigrated from Tunisia. Many young people with North African roots say they face discrimination in France. It is a complicated issue says Marzougi but one thing's for sure...    There is no discrimination at this school he says because getting in is not based on your education level or social status. It is a true melting pot. Even though 42 does not yet offer a recognized diploma potential students feel sure it will prepare them to face the future better than any state-sanctioned school. Eleanor Beardsley NPR news Paris. 