 Tomorrow is Labor Day a holiday created to honor the American labor movement. But with unemployment now at 9.7 percent just finding a job can be a job of its own. And that means finding a job with union guarantees can be a Sisyphean battle. Richard Trumka is secretary-treasurer of the AFL-CIO. He also serves on President Obama's economic recovery advisory council. And he joins us in the studio. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Good morning Liane.  Are unions losing their clout? Mr.  I do not think so. In fact I think it is quite the opposite. I think we are on the resurgence right now.  Really? Mr.  Yeah. If you just look at what is happened in the next several years one we played an instrumental part in electing the president and a progressive majority in both the House and the Senate. We are on the verge of passing labor law reform that will allow workers to have a choice in joining a union and have a voice at work without being intimidated harassed or fired. We are on the verge of passing health care reform. We have changed the way that we do our political action. We have changed the way that we outreach. And more people look at us right now and say they are the answer to my problems. They can help me solve the problems that I have whether it is stagnant wages the loss of health care the loss of pensions. Unions will give me a stronger voice on the job.  Talk a little bit about the economy. I mean with the state it is in a lot of people would take a job regardless of whether it was a union job. Do you think companies are using that to their advantage? Mr.  Well I think companies always try to use something to their advantage when it comes to denying people a job. But last year 60 - in polling - 60 million Americans said I would join a union tomorrow if given the opportunity. Because they know a couple of things. One our members get about 30 percent more than a non-union worker does. We are more likely to have health care. We are more likely to have pensions. And quite frankly we are more likely to do things like vote. And so people are looking to that and saying we are part of the solution.  You said - and I have read some of the interviews that you have done recently - that any effort to overhaul the health care system must include a public option. Do you mean to say that the AFL-CIO will not support members of Congress or the president in the future if an insurance reform bill does not include a public option? Mr.  Well let us talk about that. Let us talk about an insurance reform bill. Right now every 30 seconds one American declares bankruptcy because of medical bills. Profits for insurance companies have risen over a thousand percent in the last seven years. And health care premiums have risen 300 percent. So what we are saying is if you really want to break that stranglehold you need to set up a government program where you can negotiate tight costs and use the power of the federal government to reduce those costs.  But if it does not happen will you withdraw support? Mr.  It is likely that our members will. That is what the American public is telling us as well. They want real health insurance reform.  But there is not a lot of support or it does not seem to be much support or the support is waning for a public option at the moment. Most Americans we are hearing Americans say they do not want the government. Mr.  That is interesting. They do not want the government because when you look at it 61 percent of all expenditures right now in the health care market are covered by a government plan. When you think about Medicare all the government employees all Congress those that say we do not want a government plan out there are covered by a government plan. And then all the military - they are already covered by a government plan. And I think what you are seeing now is that the support for the public option is on the increase not on the decrease. And so having people tell all kinds of stories - I mean they came out with such ridiculous stories as the death panels and stuff like that. I guess there might really be death panels but they are the insurance companies right now that deny 30 percent of your claims so that if you need treatment the insurance company says no I guess that could have an adverse affect on you.  The AFL-CIO convention is coming up and the president of your organization John Sweeney is going to be retiring. Are you planning to run for president of the AFL-CIO? Mr.  I am indeed. And I announced my candidacy a couple of months ago. And I have been honored and blessed and humbled quite frankly by the number of unions that have now endorsed me.  And what are your plans for the future of the organization? Mr.  A lot. We are really excited about things. You will see us start to focus downward more. Try to create at the grassroots level a stronger organization. You will see us reaching out to young people. We have already engaged in that. And you will see us changing the way that we do things so that we can meet their needs rather than trying to pigeonhole what they do into the way we have done things in the past. You will see us be a little more - maybe not a little maybe a lot more aggressive and willing to define our positions a little more effectively along the sides.  Richard Trumka is the secretary-treasurer of the  came into our studios. Thanks so much. Mr.  You bet. Thank you.  Millions of Americans will not be at work tomorrow - many because it is a federal holiday many others because they do not have a job to go to. Nearly 15 million people are unemployed. The raw numbers reflect the state of the economy but they do not as easily reflect the effects of stress and uncertainty on workers and their family. Labor Secretary Hilda Solis addressed those intangible costs of the recession in her Labor Day statement. She said Americans are facing monumental challenges. I know that every job lost every hour cut from the work week means another family having to make difficult decisions. Last year three listeners told us how they were making ends meet. We spoke to them again this past week. This is Donna Giannola of Sterling Colorado. Ms.  All I hear from all my friends who are middle-America people is that they do not have jobs. And so what I hear on the radio is there is hope that things are better and yet what I see is things that are not a lot better.  Coming up how three of our listeners continue to deal with economic uncertainty. Stay with us. 