 This next story is about an attempt to break one of the most famous barriers in sports running a marathon in less than two hours. Now that means running a 4-minute 34-second mile and then maintaining that pace for 26.2 miles. The documentary Breaking2 follows three runners as they attempt to do just that.   Three two one - go.   Martin Desmond Roe directed the film which is a co-production of National Geographic and Nike. I asked him why these three men?  The project brought on board three of the greatest distance runners in the world right now. So Eliud Kipchoge was brought onboard because he is generally considered to be the greatest distance runner currently running and possibly of all time. He is the Olympic gold medalist. At the time that we did the event he had the second-fastest marathon time of all time so he was a shoo-in.  OK. And who were the other two?  The other two - we have Zersenay Tadese from Eritrea. He is a very untrained talent but he has some of the greatest physical stats that the science team had ever recorded. And the third is Lelisa Desisa from Ethiopia. He actually was 22 years old when he won the Dubai Marathon and then he went on to win two Boston Marathons as well. So he is sort of a rising star within the marathon world.  OK. So you have these three great runners and then the project was all about how do you push them to the next...  Exactly.  ...Level? The scientists and trainers involved in this effort were controlling the training regimen of the runners for six months up to race day controlling what they ate. I mean one of the things you cannot control for is heart. And I wonder how much boiled down to just mental strength to what you might call grit.  I mean just so much of it boiled down to grit at the end of the day. I mean I think that whilst there was a lot of engagement from the scientists in the training program these guys were already the best of the best you know? And with Eliud it was pretty clear that he was the favorite very quickly.  But he also posed something of a unique challenge I gather from watching the film. There is a little bit of the film that I would love to play here.   He already does everything almost perfectly. When we analyze him in terms of his training when we analyze the things that he does in the mathematical sense I find very few places for us to intervene. And that makes him a very unique problem for the scientists.  How did they go about trying to solve that problem?  In a way the scientists did not really massively impact Eliud in this race. Well one thing we should mention - the most controversial part of what the scientists brought to the race was this drafting program where they swapped pacers in every lap and have - so there is fresh pacers running every lap. More specifically they are running in a very regimented six-man arrow-like formation which is breaking the wind - if you imagine you know drafting like cars or drafting like a bicycle team. And that was the most significant thing that they were honestly able to bring to Eliud. And it is the most controversial thing because it is the thing - ultimately it was the key thing that stopped it from being an official world record.  I want to let people know and this is - spoiler alert - but this has been widely reported in the sports news so I do not think I am giving away the end of your film here. He missed but he missed by 25 seconds meaning over the course of a marathon his pace was off by less than a second per mile. That is incredible.  It was incredible. We spent so much time watching him and feeling that self-belief that we would all bought in. I mean even those last two laps as he starts to drift off there was still like some hope and some belief that he was going to be able to just slam it in that last mile.  You captured this remarkable moment with him where he is reflecting after the race. And he is asked about what it means to have come so close. And he is asked does this mean human beings have limits? And let me play his answer.   I do not agree with that. The world now is just 25 seconds away.  Just 25 seconds. I mean it is not outside the realm of possibility that he might crack this.  Oh it is certainly not outside the realm of possibility. And he is running the Berlin Marathon on Sunday. If he sets the world record this Sunday then - I do not know - maybe there will be another attempt next year. We will have to see.  That is Martin Desmond Roe director of the documentary Breaking2 about the quest to run a marathon in under two hours. Thank you so much.  Thank you so much.   I want to let you know Breaking2 premieres tonight on the National Geographic channel. 