 Do you know your birthday?   No I do not.  Buffy Sainte-Marie has joined us. The acclaimed Canadian singer-songwriter and social activist and member of the Cree Nation who is now in her 70s has co-authored the first and only authorized biography that tells the story of a woman whose career has stretched from the coffeehouses of Toronto and Greenwich Village in the early '60s to concert halls around the world.    He is 5'2 and he is 6'4. He fights with missiles and with spears. He is all of 31 and he is only 17. He is been a soldier for a thousand years.  That is a performance of her classic Universal Soldier. Buffy Sainte-Marie The Authorized Biography is co-authored with Andrea Warner who joins us now from Vancouver. Thank you very much for being with us.  Thank you so much.  And of course from Hawaii Buffy Sainte-Marie.  Thank you too.  For the sake of people who may not know your story you were adopted. Tell us what happened.  In Canada we had something that sometimes a little bit later referred to as the Big Scoop. But it had been going on for generations where native children were removed from the home for their own good. Uh-uh. But what had happens - what happens to children who are kind of lost in the system like that they are assigned a birthday. They are assigned kind of a biography. So in many cases adoptive people do not really know what the true story is.  You were adopted by Albert and Winifred Sainte-Marie in Wakefield Mass. right?  Yeah. For the most part they were wonderful. There were some terrible predators in the neighborhood and some bully predators in the house. But it is certainly not anything that is this discussable in a minute.  Well and you know - and Andrea Warner I want you to come in and help us out with this too. You know what is going on in the United States this week. And - well and it is not just this week obviously. But given the news this week I have to ask you about you and your brother I am afraid.  Well in the first place thank you so much for saying that it is not only going on this week. I assume you are referring to MeToo and other issues of abuse against women. And this kind of situation is not new. It is been going on since before the Old Testament. It is not human nature. Rape is not human nature. Spouse abuse misogyny is not human nature. It is a choice.  Buffy you know you really - you talked about it in the book a lot. And I think you tied it really perfectly and clearly for a lot of people to its roots in colonization and that sort of patriarchal system that misogyny that pecking order that you talk about a hierarchy of fear. It is a function of power.  I gather your mother could sense you were troubled. But you never told her what was going on right?  Well I thought I was telling her what was going on. But little girls do not have names for what big boys do to them. We do not have that language and we certainly did not during the '40s. My mom would say has he been teasing you again? So I thought that is what it was called. However I think we need to point out that Andrea's book is not about these issues. It is not something that has become my main story. My story is about getting beyond that.  How did you find music?   I did not have any choice . When I was about 3...  .  ...I did not play Barbies and I did not play sports. But when I saw a piano and I figured out what it could do I taught myself how to play and I never got up.  Let us listen to another section another stanza of Universal Soldier.    He is a Catholic a Hindu an atheist a Jain a Buddhist and a Baptist and a Jew. And he knows he should not kill and he knows he always will kill you for me my friend and me for you. And he is...  Andrea Warner this song was a huge hit. Buffy Sainte-Marie was in that company with Leonard Cohen Neil Young Joni Mitchell other Canadian favorites. She made a different career choice did not she?   I think she did. Absolutely. And I mean she talks about in the book how she was not really looking for that trifecta that a lot of musicians do which is fame and money and sex you know? She had different dreams. She had this goal of bringing truth to her music talking about Indigenous realities. It really stuck with me that she said her dreams were not coming true. And that is how she is - you know she is continued to sort of advocate and resist and write these songs that have so much power so much meaning and so much capacity to change the world because her dreams are so different than everybody else's.  I have to ask. So when you did a song for example a great song like Now That the Buffalo's Gone...  Thank you.  ...Did a music executive ever say to you oh come on cannot you write something of more general interest here?  No. And by the way I was already writing things of general interest. It is funny Scott. I was writing very hard-hitting things. Meanwhile Elvis Presley and other people were recording my love songs. Only nobody knew I wrote them. So I just did not get a - I did not have a like a press person out there  letting everybody know hey she is so terrific. Look at this. No that was not going on.   We have to ask of course. You became I believe the first native woman to win an Oscar.  I am the only native person ever to win an Oscar.  All right. With...  But nobody ever says that. I do not know why they do not say...  Well we just said it. The only native person ever to win an Oscar. There. We have said it...  .  Thank you. But it does appear very often that I am the only native woman. Nobody ever will say no she is the only native of anybody. No guys did either.    Love lift us up where we belong...  Of course Up Where We Belong.   ... Where the eagles cry on a mountain high. Love lift us up where we belong far from the world below...  ... Up where the clear winds blow.  You say towards the end of this book Miss Sainte-Marie we are all living on thin ice. That has been going through my mind for the past few days. Undoubtedly true do you feel more of that now these days?  No. See I have always felt it. I really have. I - listen. The way I would put it is the good news about all this bad news is that now more people know. As a child from an abusive childhood as a person who was abused by boyfriends and spouses this is not new. This has been long incoming. But also when it comes to world peace you know hoping for world peace we had some pretty gosh darn lazy citizens. To me citizenship is something that - a lot of people these days are just thinking about for the first time that they have a role in making the world better.  You know Buffy has really sort of mapped a lot of her sort of life experiences through her songs. She is given us an incredible map for hope. And I think with her last two records they are so vital. They are so contemporary for as much as all of these songs have this sort of history. And she has this great anchor into the '60s. Her current protest songs are absolutely as important arguably more so.  You know writing songs about current events is not always protest. Sometimes it is empowerment. We do not really have a name. We have a name for a protest song. But there is another kind of song that I call - I do not know - empowerment songs. There has to be a better word for it. But there is a song called You Got To Run. And OK. It might be about running a marathon for breast cancer in your community. Or it might be you got to run for election if you do not like what the present crop of bozos are doing. Or you might just be able to run your own life if you have put some thought into it.  Buffy Sainte-Marie and Andrea Warner co-authors of Buffy Sainte-Marie The Authorized Biography. Thank you both very much.  Thanks Scott.  Thank you.  