 Let us listen to some of the conversation in Eastern Kentucky. We are going to do that on the day that a county clerk from Eastern Kentucky is due in federal court. Kim Davis has been refusing to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples. She is defied the authority of the U.S. Supreme Court citing as her reason the authority of God. That is why she is been ordered to federal court today where she could be found in contempt or fined or even jailed. So let us listen to what Kentuckians are saying starting with people who have confronted Kim Davis. Here's Kentucky Public Radio's Ryland Barton.  This week Kim Davis had plenty of interactions with the public and they go like this.  You can have a seat over there.  The United States Supreme Court has ordered you to do your job.  But you need to go ahead and just step away from counter.  I am not stepping away from this counter until we get our marriage license.  You can stand right here in front of this counter because there is nobody here working today.  Davis spends much of the day with her office door shut and the blinds down avoiding people and the media spotlight. The 49-year-old Democrat was elected to this post in November. She replaced her mother Jean Bailey who served as county clerk for 37 years. Davis has not issued marriage licenses to anyone since the Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage in June. Since then protestors and couples who want to get married in their home county have hounded her. Flavis McKinney is a retired sawmill worker. He says he is known Davis for nearly 30 years and he thinks she is doing a great job.  I have no complaint and I do not think too many other think everything has. Everything was going smooth till this gay marriage thing come in.  McKinney says he prays with Davis in her office every few days. He is one of many religious supporters celebrating her stand. They applaud Davis' evangelical conviction to uphold her beliefs despite repeated rulings from federal courts that her personal views cannot get in the way of her official duties. McKinney says the legalization of same-sex marriage is a sign of the end times.  She told me before she was elected. It was you know passing in other states and stuff. She said I cannot do it if you know she was elected to office if it come to Kentucky. She said I just cannot do it being the will of God.  Davis declined to be interviewed but this week when the Supreme Court refused to hear her grievances Davis doubled down. She released a statement that said she never imagined she would be asked to violate a central teaching of scripture regarding marriage. Her critics point out despite her moral posturing she is violated principles of her own religion Apostolic Christianity by getting divorced three times. Robbie Blankenship and Jesse Cruz tried to get a marriage license yesterday.  .  You been married four times - three divorcees.  Three divorces.  We have been together 20 years but our love is not equal to yours?  Davis was first married in 1984 and then in 1996 2007 and 2009. The second and last of those marriages were to the same man - her present husband Joe Davis. Jack Carpenter lives next to a house the Davises rent out to a member of their church. He says he was disgusted when Davis' personal life was used against her.  Where they are bringing how many times she is been married into it now - you know what is that got to do with anything? You know I mean I do not know. It is just - it is crazy. You know here we are this little small town. We are on national news.  Carpenter says Davis is a quote super super nice lady. Even though he does not agree with her views he feels sorry for her.  It is actually what she believes. She is not doing it for publicity or any crazy stunt. It is - that is what is in her heart.  Carpenter says he cannot imagine Davis backing down and she is given no sign that she will. For NPR News I am Ryland Barton in Morehead Ky. 