 And it is time to play The Puzzle.   Joining us is Will Shortz. He is puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master. Hi Will.  Hey there Lulu.  Before we get to last week's challenge I understand you have some corrections from last week's on-air puzzle.  Yeah well first on the on-air puzzle I asked for the only state that follows West Virginia alphabetically. The answer was Wyoming. Well Wyoming is indeed the last state but Wisconsin fits between West Virginia and Wyoming. And also I mentioned that Clare Luce was the co-founder and co-publisher of Reader's Digest. Nope that was Lila Wallace. Clare Boothe Luce was the wife of Henry Luce who founded Time and Life magazines. And she was a noted author and political figure in her own right.  Apologies to the people of Wisconsin. OK remind us of last week's challenge.  Yes it came from listener Jeremy Crane of Madison Wis. I said name a deity in ancient mythology. The first half of the name phonetically names a common object and the second half of the name by spelling names another object that is often put inside the first one. What is it? The answer is Persephone. She was the queen of the underworld and the parts are purse and phone.  We received over 1700 correct responses and the winner is Becky Mayo of Riverside Calif. Congratulations and welcome to the program.  Thank you so much. This is very thrilling.  Well I must say I heard that you were very excited when you got the call .  I could not believe it. My first question was I get the lapel pin no matter what right?   You went straight for the goods. I like it.  I did. I did not want to take any chances.  How did you figure out last week's puzzle?  Well my husband and I wrote a children's play about the constellations. And although Persephone is not a constellation we were somewhat familiar with the Greek mythology. So it just kind of came to me.  And how long have you been playing The Puzzle?  Well Will and I have been great friends for 33 years.  .  Our friendship has been a bit one-sided until now.   But Will and I have grown older together for 33 years.  Wow.  We miss Liane but we love you Lulu.  Well thank you very much. And I am sure Will is now excited to have a new friend he can talk to you personally. And on that note take it away Will.  All right. Becky it is nice to become friends now directly. Every answer today is a word or name that has the accented syllable lee in any spelling somewhere inside it. For example if I said expungement you would say deletion.  OK.  All right number one a city in Ohio sometimes called Holy.  Holy - Toledo.  Holy Toledo is it. Supreme Court Justice Samuel.  Alito.  That is it. Pledge of blank.  Pledge of...  Something you say in school.  Allegiance.  That is it. Opposite of an atheist.  Opposite of an atheist. A believer.  Believer is it. Island off the coast of California.  Catalina.  Catalina is it. A resident of California's largest city.  Angelino.  That is it.  These seem tailor made for you.  Two California clues. One named queen of Tejano music.  Oh dear me. Oh God I do not even know what Tejano music is.  Jennifer Lopez played her. There is also a very famous singer actress now - her last name is Gomez.  Selena.  There you go Selena. Good. Try this Italian film director Federico.  Fellini.  That is it. And here's your last one. It is a two-word answer Leonardo da Vinci painting.  Mona Lisa.  Mona Lisa's it. Good job.  Good job. How do you feel?  I feel great and I just want to thank you.  Oh thanks a lot Becky. I appreciate that.  I am really excited for you because you are indeed going to get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin as well as puzzle books and games. You can read all about it at npr.orgpuzzle. Which member station do you listen to?  I listened to KOPB in Oregon and I think we should extend our best wishes to all the people in during the fires there.  Yeah.  Indeed. We do. Becky Mayo of Riverside Calif. thank you so much for playing The Puzzle.  Thank you both so much. What a treat.  All right Will. What is next week's challenge?  Yes it comes from listener Judy Horn of Redding Mass. Name a famous person with the initials M C - that is M as in Mary C as in Charles. The first initial and last name anagram to the person's field of renown. What is it? So again famous person initials M C. The first initial and the last name together anagram to the person's field of renown. What is it?  When you have the answer go to our website npr.orgpuzzle and click on the Submit Your Answer link. Remember just one entry per person please. Our deadline for entries is Thursday September 17 at 3 p.m. Eastern. Include a phone number where we can reach it about that time. And if you are the winner we will give you a call and you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master for 33 years strong Will Shortz. Thanks so much Will.  Thanks Lulu.  