 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. Talk TV was full of big-name politicians this week. There is no bigger name in politics right now of course than Donald Trump and he was on NBC's Tonight Show last night where Jimmy Fallon suggested a new theme song for the Trump campaign.    All I do is win win win no matter what. Got money on my mind I can never get enough. And every time I step up in the building everybody hands go up.  That is what I am talking about. What do you think?  I mean honestly it happens to be 100 percent true.   With NPR Sam Sanders reports that the most effective talk show appearance of the week by a politician may have come from Vice President Biden who is not even a candidate at least for now.  Donald Trump actually made two talk show appearances this week. And because he is Donald Trump and he does what he wants his appearance on ABC's The View was done via phone.   Are you there Big D?  I am. Hi Whoopi. How you doing?  After that greeting from Whoopi Goldberg Joy Behar called Trump out on some comments he made about Carly Fiorina who is also running for president.   In Rolling Stone magazine you said look at that face would anyone vote for that? Can you imagine that the face of our next president? Are you making fun of her looks Donald 'ecause I know you do not like it...  Not at all no. I am talking about the persona Joy this...  Trump spent the whole interview not apologizing for comments he is made about women and Latinos. He said he is polling well with everyone - classic Trump.   Please welcome Governor Jeb Bush.  Jeb Bush sat down with new Late Show host Stephen Colbert on Tuesday night.   So I am going to say something that is heretic I guess. I do not think Barack Obama has bad motives. I just think he is wrong on a lot of issues. I do not ascribe...  Oh you were so close to getting them to clap. You were so close. You were this close. They were this - you got to pause. You got to pause 'til they clap and then hit them...  So close but not quite. And that is how it went for pretty much the whole interview. Here's what happened when Colbert asked Bush about his campaign logo.   Your poster - your campaign poster is just Jeb with a J-E-B and an exclamation mark. Why the  Jeb?  It connotes excitement - it connotes...  Were they laughing with Bush? Hard to tell. Next up Hillary Clinton. She was on Ellen Thursday and like everyone else on that show she danced.   Mrs. Clinton tried the whip and the nae nae. But even her husband Bill said it was lacking. He tweeted HillaryClinton looks good with her whip skills but needs work with her nae nae. May require more lessons.    Joe Joe Joe Joe Joe Joe Joe...  Joe Biden did not need any lessons on winning over the audience on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert Thursday night. The crowd was literally screaming his name. Biden spoke candidly with Colbert about losing his son Beau recently - almost crying at some points.   A couple months before he died I was at his house. And he said Dad I know how much you love me. So you got to promise me something. Promise me you are going to be all right.  More than any of the other politicians on talk shows this week Biden connected. He was relaxed. He was himself. He was real. Maybe because at least at this point he is not running for anything at all. Sam Sanders NPR News. 