 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. Good morning. I am David Greene.  And I am Steve Inskeep. Anybody following the Republican presidential debate last night could see the effect of polls.  First there is President Obama's approval rating. Since it is well below 50 percent right now pundits are intensely watching to see who emerges on the Republican side.  Next there is Texas Governor Rick Perry's jump to the front of the GOP field in the polls. That guaranteed Perry plenty of scrutiny last night.  A Tea Party group the Tea Party Express co-sponsored the debate. And in a moment we will hear from some in the audience. We begin with NPR national political correspondent Don Gonyea.  In case anyone was thinking that by sponsoring last night's debate the Tea Party was getting co-opted by the GOP establishment Amy Kremer of the Tea Party Express made it clear she saw the takeover working the other way around.   We are here because we the people are going to choose the next Republican nominee for president - not the Republican Party.   The event's co-sponsor was CNN and the original cable news network got the conflict it may have hoped for as soon as the questioning began. Sparks flew right away between Governor Rick Perry and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney who had been the front runner until Perry came along. In his first debate appearance last week Perry called Social Security a Ponzi scheme and a failure. And in a book he released early this year he suggested the program was unconstitutional. But last night in Tampa he walked that back a bit stressing that no one in the program now should worry about it going away.   But the idea that we have not had the courage to stand up and look Americans in the face - young midcareer professionals or kids that are my children's age - and looked them in the eye and said listen this is a broken system. It has been called a Ponzi scheme by many people long before me.  At that point Romney pounced.   But the question is do you still believe that Social Security should be ended as a federal program - as you did six months ago when your book came out - and returned to the states or do you want to retreat from that position?  I think we ought to have a conversation...  We are having that right now Governor. That is - we are running for president.  If you will let me finish I will finish this conversation.  It was early but that set the tone for the entire night as one candidate after another went after Perry and his record as governor. Debate moderator Wolf Blitzer set off another heated exchange with this.   Governor Perry as you well know you signed an executive order requiring little girls 11- and 12-year-old girls to get a vaccine to deal with a sexually transmitted disease that could lead to cervical cancer. Was that a mistake?  It was indeed.  Perry said if he had to do it over he would have gone through the legislature rather than issuing an executive order. This time congresswoman Michele Bachmann took Perry on calling the vaccination quote a government injection that was forced on little girls. Perry explained that parents could opt not to have their daughters get the vaccine. Bachmann rejected that and accused Perry of implementing the program to help a campaign donor.   What I am saying is that it is wrong for a drug company because the governor's former chief of staff was the chief lobbyist for this drug company - the drug company gave thousands of dollars in political donations to the governor and this is just flat-out wrong.  The company was Merck and it was a 5000 contribution that I had received from them. I raise about 30 million. And if you are saying that I can be bought for 5000 I am offended.   I am offended for all the little girls and the parents that did not have a choice. That is what I am offended for.   Bachmann has long been a Tea Party champion and in this exchange she scored points as some in the crowd audibly booed the Texas governor a man polls show to be the Tea Party favorite at this point in the campaign. Then came the issue of immigration which prompted still more candidate assaults on Perry - and more boos from the audience - when he defended a law he signed in Texas allowing children of illegal immigrants to get in-state tuition rates at state colleges.   And the bottom line is it does not make any difference what the sound of your last name is. That is the American way. No matter how you got into that state from the standpoint of your parents brought you there or what have you and that is what we have done in the state of Texas. And I am proud...  Perry was far from alone in braving the disapproval of the Tampa crowd which was hostile to some of Romney's replies and even a few from congressman Ron Paul. But it was a night when Perry got a glimpse of what life is like for the front runner. In that sense it may have been the first night his Republican rivals played for keeps. There will be many such nights to come. Don Gonyea NPR News Tampa. 