 Lindsey Buckingham helped make Fleetwood Mac one of the biggest rock bands of all time. He works mostly solo today. His sixth solo album just released is Seeds We Sow.    It is the end of time the end of time. Can you feel it? Can you feel it?  Lindsey Buckingham joins us from the studios of NPR West. Thanks so much for being with us.  Oh my pleasure.  And when I say solo boy I mean really solo. You - let me get this - you sang produced engineered almost every song. You played many of the instruments all from your home studio?  Yes. You know it is funny. You work in a band and it tends to be more like moviemaking I think where it is a bit more of a conscious verbalized and to some degree political process. I think when you work alone - the way I do it anyway - you could sort of liken it to painting where you are going down by yourself and there is kind of a one-on-one with the canvas. And you get different results you know from different processes.  Let me ask you about your distinctive style of guitar playing.   You do not use a pick.  That is true.  Let us listen to a riff we have here.   So forgive me does not that hurt?   Well you know there is a little bit of a callous built up on the fingers. No it does not hurt.    ... you on my mind...  I taught myself to play at a very young age and that is just the - kind of the way I came up. I was listening to Scotty Moore who was Elvis' guitar player?  Yeah.  ?who used a pick but also used his fingers. And then I was listening to some classical people and it just - you know Fleetwood Mac when I joined they tried to get me to use a pick. But it was too late.    Is there a theme that ties the songs of Seeds We Sow together?  I was not really looking for any subject matter in particular. It was only when I was done that I kind of looked at the group of songs and saw that there was in fact a thread. And I think that thread probably has to do with the choices we make the fact that actions have consequences. And it is a - kind of a karmic element that runs through the album and that is the idea behind the title track as well.  Your very lucid explanation is kind of hard to put on a bumper sticker.  Well let us hope so.   You know I mean we try to go for the left side of the palate with the solo work.  Yeah.  We are certainly trying to delve into the esoteric a little bit more.    Oh the seeds we sow...  Maybe I just do not spend enough time in California but I got to tell you I do not know what the left side of my palatedoes that the right side does not.   Well you know...  I just kind of swallow indiscriminately.  I guess the division for me is Fleetwood Mac represents a more conservative mainstream sensibility. And the solo work represents you know everything to the left of that - which is significant for me you know.  So the left side of your palate is closer to the heart?  I would say so because it is not about selling. It is not about meeting anyone's commercial expectations. It is just about following your heart taking risks allowing yourself to grow in the way that you think is important.    Sweet things pretty things are dying in the penny arcade of Edgar Allan Poe. Medicine men have all gone spying. Oh the seeds we sow.  You are kicking off a 50-day tour as I understand it.  Yes.  What happens if and when you are on tour and somebody shouts out play Big Love or play Go Your Own Way or one of the big Fleetwood Mac hits?  Well you go into a situation with your eyes open and you know that probably they would run you out on a rail if you did not cover a little bit of your body of work. And you know ironically both the songs you mentioned are in the set anyway.    You can go your own way. Go your own way. You can call it another lonely day.  So is there going to be another Fleetwood Mac reunion?  So yes I think life without Fleetwood Mac would be less enriched. And we have been down a road as a band and experienced things together that really no one else can understand and no one else has been through. And I think there are quite a few chapters left for Fleetwood Mac. And next year I would be very surprised if we did not reconvene and possibly even make an album.  Mr. Buckingham is there a song you want to point us to in this album?  There is one which I love a great deal called In Our Own Time. This is a song that was written about my wife. And I think one of the things you realize when you are in a relationship is that the pendulum kind of swings back and forth and that you have to approach a relationship with a great deal of faith that the pendulum will come back. And I think you need to have the grace and the wisdom to learn quite often to wait.    Fire still burning but in a while she will make it rain.  Mr. Buckingham thanks so much.  My pleasure.  Lindsey Buckingham. His new solo CD Seeds We Sow.   ?could not stand the strain. I had the same old dream?  And you can hear songs from Seeds We Sow at nprmusic.org. This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon.   She used to come from time to time but not anymore. Still in my mind... 