 Nobody sings like a man quite like Frankie Valli.   Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons had their first number one hit 50 years ago this month.   Sherry was the start of a career that has lasted for half a century. The group's rise from the projects of Newark to the tops of music charts has been celebrated in the Tony Award-winning musical Jersey Boys. And now Frankie Valli himself is set to make his own Broadway debut with a weeklong concert engagement next month at the Broadway Theater in New York. Frankie Valli joins us from the studios of NPR West. Mr. Valli thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  You were not born with that name were you?  No I was not. My name actually is Francesco Castaluccio.  And where did Frankie Valli come from?  I had a manager that thought that Castaluccio was too long and no one would understand. At that time he could have called me anything he wanted as long as I was getting this shot.  Well you Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons scored a string of hits right after Sherry. There was Walk Like a Man and then Big Girls Do not Cry.   So Mr. Valli I got to ask you about the falsetto. What made you decide to sing up there?  Well every once in a while it just came out and here we are.  Oh my.   I do not know. You know I thought everybody had falsetto. And since I was not a schooled singer who studied with anybody I just thought anybody who had a voice could do anything they wanted with their voice.   The musical Jersey Boys has been so successful. I gather there were some stories that are related in the musical that you did not necessarily feel that it would help you for the public to know when you were actually living those years.  Well all through the early days of our success the one thing that I was afraid of more than anything was that the public might find out we were not clean-cut kids who went to church every Sunday. Some of the guys in the group had prison records. So we just prayed and hoped that nobody would ever find out.  Was music your step up and out?  That was my only way out. I mean I do not know what would have happened if it was not for being involved in the music business. I mean I started out very young and I was really convinced as to what I wanted to do. And I would buy these songbooks. It was lyrics that all the songs that were popular at the time and I would sing along when these songs were being played on the radio. And then I started to mess around a little bit with doing impressions. And by doing impressions I began to realize what this vocal mechanism was really capable of doing. And I took a little from the various different people that I liked a lot and created a style of my own.    I have also read that if you had not become a singer you would have been a hairdresser.  Right. Until I realize that you could not sing and do hair at the same time.  Well that could be a gimmick for some new shop.   Has it been hard to say goodbye to the other original Four Seasons?  It was very difficult. You know the first guy that left the group was Nick Massi. And it almost broke my heart when he left the group. But Nick was a particular kind of guy that being on the road was really not what Nick was all about. But I never in my life have known anybody who was more in love with music than Nick Massi. Learned a lot of his music in the penitentiary. And Tommy DeVito was a terrific guitar player. Again here's a guy who learned to play guitar in jail. And Bob Gaudio was an incredible writer.  So what is after 50 years of this what is the key to keeping going staying fresh?  Well I think the key is that you have to be in good health. You have to really love what you do and be capable of doing it or do it at least until you are not capable of doing it anymore. Right now I am feeling fine and I will do it for as long as I can.  You are feeling fine and opening on Broadway.  Right. You know and I am so excited about that. I mean really excited. We have been able to accomplish a lot of things that were just dreams you know. To play Broadway and be able to do a two-hour show that is very special.  Frankie Valli. And you can see him and the Four Seasons at the Broadway Theater in New York starting October 19. Frankie Valli spoke to us from NPR West. Mr. Valli a real pleasure. Thank you sir.  It is been my pleasure.   This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 