 The 63rd Prime Time Emmy Awards ceremony is being held tonight in Los Angeles. Mad Men is the most nominated television series with 19 nominations. The annual ceremony no doubt will draw its usual roster of television heavyweights and media stars. But it is been drawing fewer and fewer viewers. NPR's pop-culture blogger Linda Holmes joins us to talk about the ceremony. Linda welcome to the program.  Thank you very much.  Why do we still care about the Emmys?  Well if you are in the industry you care about the Emmys because that is still the quickest shorthand they have for quality programming. It is the fastest way they can communicate you should take our shows seriously in addition to just enjoy them a lot. So the industry cares for that reason. If you are a fan of a show fans of shows still care a lot about seeing their shows nominated and seeing their shows win.  At the same time it feels like for the regular networks they have not been doing as well as premium cable and cable. It seems like the Emmys has been this kind of showcase for all the shows that some of us do not get to see.  Absolutely. That is true particularly in drama. If you look at drama series cable - both basic cable and premium - have very heavy activity in Emmy nominations in drama. Broadcast networks on the other hand have still a lot of the strength in comedy. All six of the comedies that are nominated for outstanding comedy series this year are broadcast network shows. They are on those big essentially five networks. So it really depends on whether you look at drama or comedy. The networks are hanging in well in comedy but they have definitely lost some ground in drama.  And this year who is hosting?  Jane Lynch is hosting.  Ah. Jane Lynch is the kind of villain character from the high school musical-slash-comedy Glee right?  Right absolutely.  I think of these award shows as being hosted by number one stand-up comics number two late-night hosts. I do not know the Billy Crystal-types. That is the Oscar. But is it - it actually seems like a really interesting choice to have someone who is not naturally a host of things.  Right. I think the connection between her and an awards show is largely that Glee has this kind of variety aspect where every once in a while she performs in numbers and bits as part of Glee. But yeah it is a little bit unusual for it to be kind of a straight-up actress as opposed to as you say a comedian or a host.  And they probably want some of that audience right? It is like get the kids somehow.  Right absolutely. And she is a person as divided as people sometimes are about Glee she is a person who people often agree on that she is very...  Right. Even if you hate Glee...  Right.  ...you like that character.  Absolutely. And before that she was a very respected comic actress prior to Glee. Not nearly as famous as she is now but very very well thought of.  OK. I want to hear your forecast. Who could be the surprise winner? Who are the sure bets?  The surest bet I think is that Modern Family is very likely to repeat as outstanding comedy series. They won last year. The entire adult cast of that show which is six people they are all nominated. So clearly the Emmys are still very high on that show. I would very surprised to see it not repeat. In terms of the surprise one thing that is interesting is that Mad Men which has won Outstanding Drama Series the last three years may potentially have another win. They had another very good season but I think you could potentially see it upended by something like perhaps HBO's Boardwalk Empire which...  Another sort of period drama that I do not see that often but everyone says is amazing.  Another period drama and interestingly Boardwalk Empire won a whole bunch of the technical categories at the Creative Arts Emmys which were this past weekend. So sometimes those are a harbinger of things to come. Not always.  That was Linda Holmes. She is author of NPR's pop culture blog Monkey See. Thank you Linda. And good luck to the programs you are rooting for.  Thank you. 