 This is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. I am David Greene.  And I am Steve Inskeep. Good morning. The new novel by J.K. Rowling includes a scene inside a school. This is not the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry the central location of the Harry Potter books. This time Rowling writes of a grim state-run school in real-life England. Misbehaving kids are sent to a guidance counselor who wearily reflects quote many of them were devoid of work-a-day morals. They lied misbehaved and cheated routinely. And yet their fury when wrongly accused was limitless and genuine. Krystal a troubled teenage girl who comes to that counselor gradually emerges as the central figure of Rowling's novel The Casual Vacancy. The character grows out of Rowling's observations as a teacher. J.K.  When people are very damaged they can often meet the world with a kind of defiance that Krystal - and in an even more extreme form Krystal's mother Terri exhibits this this automatic denial this wish not to take responsibility for anything this fear that if fault is found they will be condemned and ruthlessly punished. I think that both the girl and the mother feel that way. And I saw that a lot when I was teaching. And yet it does absolutely it can and does often go hand in hand with a very routinely cavalier relationship with the truth and with what you and I would consider very basic morals.  But if you get to that point where they are actually unjustly accused they will dig in.  Yeah definitely. I mean one of the great problems for me is that the poor - and I can here only really speak about Britain though I suspect this is a fairly universal attitude - the poor are so often discussed just as this large shapeless mass. You lose your individuality a huge amount when you have no money and I certainly had that experience. You become a statistic and in person you become very depersonalized too. You do not have an answer to the question What do you do? You become part of a problem. You are someone who stands in a line to get money. It is not where you want to be and you become very voiceless.  You know I do not want to give away too much of the plot but there is a young man named Andrew who starts sending out email that is damaging to his father. And then you have this line here about the teenager.  He thought it was all over finished done with. Andrew had never yet had reason to observe the first tiny bubble of fermenting yeast in which was contained an inevitable alchemical transformation. And it is almost like Harry Potter-style magic transformed to real life. You do some small thing and you have no idea what consequences may come afterward.  I am glad you read that line actually. Not because it is got the word alchemical in it but because it goes to the heart of these teenage characters that they are this curious mix which I think is very characteristic of adolescence of being truth seekers in the way that adolescents often are. They crave the big picture. They crave the grand gesture. They often go to the heart of things. In this book a couple of times I have my teenage characters groping for truths that the adults are simply blind to. Yet at the same time they have very little empathy which I think is true of a lot of teenagers. In fact I think it is almost an inevitable side effect of being an adolescent that you do not quite understand the damage you can do.  Have your kids read this?  My eldest daughter has. She is 19. And I would not recommend it for a seven and nine-year-old which is what my other two children are.  Of course not. What does your eldest daughter think?  She had a curious reaction actually. She came to me and she said I finished it. And I said Right. And she said I cried. And I said Good.  Because I do not think I could - yeah I would have been very surprised if she had not. And then she said it is made me realize how much I do not know. And I said What do you mean. And then she talked about some of the characters in the book. And we had actually a very interesting conversation because Jessica can remember our lives changing very dramatically. But she was not old enough when we left a life of real poverty to remember some of what I can remember. And I suppose this book brought it home to her what kind of existence we could have had actually.  But she remembers a little?  Oh yeah. Yeah. She was four or five when our fortunes really changed. And she can remember the flat we were living in when I - when Harry Potter was published. And she can remember me getting the deal that meant we could buy our own house which looked impossible at one point. I did not think we were going to own our own house maybe ever.  Have you spent any time thinking about how the critics might receive this book?  Surprisingly little. I mean obviously I am aware that everyone can read it which will be great because I have been working on it on and off for five years so it is been a long time in the making. I truly do not mean this in any kind of an arrogant way but I feel very liberated at the moment. And whatever whatever the reviewers feel about The Casual Vacancy it is what I wanted it to be and you cannot say fairer than that as a writer. So if they like it that will be wonderful. If they do not like it that will be OK. I do feel that I am a very lucky lucky person. In all sorts of ways and one of the ways in which I am fortunate is Harry Potter set me free to write whatever I want to write. I do not - you know we are not living hand to mouth. Clearly I can afford to pay all of my bills and now my writing life is it is a great experience. I can really do whatever I want to do. So I am a very fortunate person. I am a fortunate writer.  Thanks very much for the time.  Steve thanks so much. Really enjoyed it.  That is J.K. Rowling whose first post-Harry Potter novel is called The Casual Vacancy. 