 It is television big night tonight. The Emmy Awards will be given out in Los Angeles. And among the nominees are perennials like 30 Rock and The Daily Show. But there are some new players too like PBS's Downton Abbey led by the great Dame Maggie Smith.   We are joined by NPR's Linda Holmes. She runs the pop culture blog Monkey See. Linda welcome.  Thank you so much.  Now what is the big story with the Emmys tonight? What are the big shows?  I think one of the big stories n is that the Outstanding Drama Series category which has been tilting more and more toward cable is entirely cable and PBS's this year. PBS had Downton Abbey there are then some cable shows. Nothing from commercial broadcast television at all drama among the drama series nominees which is a blow for them.  So does this mean that TV is finished over broadcast TV gone?  I do not think so. Broadcast TV is still pretty strong in comedy. And broadcast TV is still strong in reality. But they have definitely seen some big losses in drama whereas they used to be dominated by network shows the big NBC shows - the E.R and Hill Street Blues and things like that - that whole era. But The Good Wife which would have been the broadcast show maybe most likely to get in this year did not get in this year.  What does this big shift mean for content do you think? Does it mean that the broadcast networks will have to work harder and catch up?  I think what they are trying to do right now is find a different space for themselves 'ecause a lot of the cable prestige television has a certain niche that it fits into. You get a lot of shows that are centered around sort of middle-aged male antiheroes. And I think one of the things that the broadcast networks are trying to do they have got shows like The Good Wife and Parenthood that is where some of their more well-respected stuff is. So I think they are trying to find another place where maybe there is a little more focus on shows that are about women. There is a little more focus on shows that have perhaps a family focus something like that.  Relationships. Oh what do you think about commercial breaks? I mean speaking personally and for myself I like watching shows that are not sliced into itty-bitty little pieces.  That is always going to be a big challenge for broadcast network. As long as they are paying for their content with commercial breaks they are competing with people who are not. Now obviously some of the basic cable networks also show commercials AMC which has Mad Men and Breaking Bad. But certainly the networks like HBO and Showtime you know have the benefit of having no commercial breaks. And I think it definitely allows you to do different things structurally with episodes. And TV writers will tell you it is different to write an episode when you are not having to write to act breaks that lead into commercials.  Speaking of slicing and dicing it is interesting to consider the kinds of cable shows that do get a lot of attention as you said antiheroes but that is kind of a subtle way of putting it. I mean there is blood all over the floor in these programs.  There really is and some of them are fairly well known for it Game Of Thrones and Breaking Bad and shows like that Boardwalk Empire. But even on a show like Mad Men even Mad Men has a history of running over a foot with a lawnmower. You know it is a very bloody atmosphere when you are trying to find the really high-end shows. If your taste is not for gore you are a little challenged in kind of navigating that landscape if it does not happen to be your taste.  Are you telling me that the notion that the family would gather around the television sets and watch something together that is also gone? I mean what do you watch with kids?  You know it is a little challenging. I think as television has gotten a little more hospitable to adult shows good shows for adults it is gotten a little tougher to find things that are good for families. In fact I think that is one of the things that has driven the popularity of things like American Idol and The Voice is even though show like that may be very silly people feel like that is something you can watch with your kids that is something your family can all watch. So I think family viewing in some ways has run more towards variety shows and things like that where people feel a little bit better about sharing the content with kids.  Linda Holmes will be live blogging the Emmys tonight at npr.org. Thank you.  Thank you. 