 OK. Rafael Nadal now joins that small group of tennis players who have won all four tournaments that make up the tennis Grand Slam. He won the U.S. Open last night defeating Novak Djokovic in four sets. Sports Illustrated senior writer John Wertheim was watching. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Hi there. How are you?  I am doing OK. I am looking at the score here - 6-4 5-7 6-4 6-2. It seems like these two players were evenly matched at the beginning but then Nadal gained strength over the course of the match. Mr.  Well Djokovic played this I would not say epic but you know an awful well-played hard-fought semifinal against Roger Federer on Saturday. And I think in that fourth set the fatigue finally kicked in and he was sort of you know he was the boxer who did not have it in him. And Nadal sort of cruised. But it was nice after a lot of rain that we had a competitive and awfully entertaining match last night.  It is amazing that Djokovic got over Federer. But it was thought that the rain delay the extra day might give him a chance to rest. You are suggesting maybe not. Mr.  I think he was the only person pleased that it rained on Sunday. I mean we wonder - you shutter to think what would happen if he had to come back and play the next day which is very rare in a Grand Slam. Usually players have that extra day. So yeah I think it could have been ugly if they had to go out there and play against Nadal who moves you around who is the worst kind of opponent to play when you are the least big tired. It would have been bad if they had had to play that on less than a day's rest for Djokovic.  Well let us talk about Nadal's style. What is it that he does to dominate other players and how did he demonstrate that last night? Mr.  You know unfortunately I think his real gift is mental I mean which is harder to describe and harder to point out. But he is just unbreakable. But you know his serve was vastly improved. He probably moves as well as any player. John McEnroe's saying he might have the best volleys in tennis now which is frightening. I mean this is really - this guy has morphed from this sort of clay court prodigy to hey this worthy challenger to Federer to you know he is 24 years old and has nine majors including as you said all four of them. Maybe we need to start thinking of him in a completely new dimension. I mean this may end up being the guy who eclipses Federer as the greatest player ever. I mean he is just fantastic.  Let us remember he is about what five years younger than Roger Federer at age 24? Mr.  Yeah. Yeah four and change younger than Federer and actually has more Grand Slam titles which are sort of the benchmarks for tennis greatness. More of those Grand Slams than Federer had at this age. Again he is won them on all the surfaces. I mean it is really -it is pretty impressive that sort of back-to-back - and even back-to-back-to-back if you want to include Pete Sampras. We are really seeing three just elite elite players in a very short period of time.  And a pretty elite year for Nadal. He is won the French Open Wimbledon and the U.S. Open all in a single year. Mr.  That is right. That is something you know no player had done since Rod Laver. But I mean that is going in a period you know in an interval of about 12 weeks. That is going from clay to grass to hard court. I mean that - it does not get sort of more versatile than that. So again this is just an incredible run he is on right now.  So if you are in your mid-20s and you have already reached this peak in your game what do you think is important for a tennis player like Nadal to continue going and establish himself if he can as the greatest in the game at the moment? Mr.  I think - I mean you hate to even say this but it is really physical as much as anything else. If you are in your mid-20s and playing like this you do not go skiing. I mean you...  Mr.  You watch your health and watch your knees. Because again coupled with this amazing this sort of mental toughness which is harder to articulate but every player says it is really what sets him apart - I mean you are right we could really be entering this sort of Nadal era. But you know tennis has this way of you know the plots change rather fast in this sport. And Serena Williams looks dominating and then she goes away and then she comes back. I mean so history tells us that he is not just going to run the show. There will be some drama and there'ill be some plot twists here.  Mr. Wertheim thanks very much. Mr.  Anytime. Thanks.  John Wertheim of Sports Illustrated author of the book Strokes of Genius Federer Nadal and the Greatest Match Ever Played. This is NPR News. 