 And as Jeb Bush works to contrast himself with his brother this week he is also focusing on his differences with Donald Trump. But will that strategy work for Jeb Bush? And on the Democratic side Hillary Clinton is trying out a new strategy as well. She gave a rare TV interview to try to put an end to the controversy over her private email server but her critics were not satisfied. Here to tell us more is NPR's Domenico Montanaro. Welcome.  Good morning Linda.  So what - does Donald Trump have to self-destruct for Jeb Bush or any of the other Republican candidates to get some attention?  Well you know it is an interesting question because you know Donald Trump had a stumble on Thursday in an interview with a conservative talk show radio host Hugh Hewitt when he confused the Iranian Quds Forces with Iraqi Kurds and was not able quite to distinguish between Hezbollah and Hamas. And that gave Jeb Bush an opening to say that you need to know the players if you want to be president. Now of course nothing that Donald Trump has done so far has hurt his chances with his supporters and this probably will not either. But for someone like Jeb Bush Trump supporters really are not the point. He is trying to win over the half to two-thirds of Republicans that do not want a Jeb Bush - or do not want a Donald Trump president or nominee. And as uncomfortable as Jeb Bush has looked in attempting to do this I think in the end it is actually a pretty smart strategy because it is elevated him to be the principal anti-Trump.  Now Hillary Clinton was interviewed by MSNBC's Andrea Mitchell on Friday. That is just her third national television interview since announcing her campaign. She said she is sorry there is been so much controversy over her private email server. She did not apologize for the decision to use that private server. Does the apology settle things?  Probably not and I mean I think that the biggest issue here for her is that she apologized for the confusion right? She did not apologize for doing it. She sounded more contrite and I think that this is part of what the campaign sees as a reset after Labor Day. Andrea Mitchell's interview is probably the first of several that they are going to wind up doing. She is going to be out there more. She is not going to making the kinds of jokes about this like she did saying hey I love Snapchat because you know those messages disappear. She thought that she could play it off as a joke and found that backlash to that was very difficult to overcome. So you are probably going to see her do some more to try to be more contrite about this. And they - her campaign thinks that as the primaries get closer issues are what people are going to care about and when it comes to perceptions of her having high unfavorable ratings they say look elections are choices. Compare her to another Republican when she gets there - if she gets there - and then you can look at their favorability ratings too. And none of them looks very hotly positive either.  Hillary Clinton's former staffer who worked on her private email server said this week that he will invoke the Fifth Amendment so that he will not have to testify before the House Select Committee on Benghazi.  Right now his Fifth Amendment-invoking does not look like it has anything to do with classified material or a breach. It looks more like Bryan Pagliano's - who we are talking about who worked on her server - looks more like this has to do with his failure to file a financial disclosure indicating that the Clintons had paid him personally to work on that server.  So what about Joe Biden?  Well Joe Biden you know this week he is sort of putting out - looks like a trial balloon. He is kind of an extrovert and he likes to get energy off the campaign trail. And we are seeing him in Atlanta seeing him in Florida. He is going to be Stephen Colbert's show. But it sounds like when you look at his remarks to the DNC on a conference call - the Democratic National Committee - and in Atlanta he looks like somebody who is had taken the wind out of his sails does not quite have that emotional energy to run. Now in addition there is been the surge of Bernie Sanders who has had probably the best summer and is - you know Joe Biden's going to have to compete not just with Hillary Clinton but Bernie Sanders if he were to run anyway.  NPR's Domenico Montanaro thank you so much.  Thank you. 