 Maen Rashid Areikat is the Palestinian Liberation Organization's representative to the United States. He is part of the delegation that will introduce the bid at the U.N. this week. He explained the Palestinians' approach.  If we can elevate the Palestinian status politically to the status of a state we will be an occupied state by another member state of the United Nations. This will have political moral and legal significance.  Now knowing that the U.S. which has said that it would oppose this move on the Security Council would veto this bid is this essentially symbolic?  First of all we wish that the U.S. would not veto especially at a time when other peoples in the region are rising up calling for freedom and more self-determination. And the United States made it clear that they are in support of all these popular movements in different Arab countries in the region.  why would the United States oppose the Palestinian request to be admitted at the United Nations?  Well the argument is that they would want this process to go through peace talks that there is a lot more conditions and complications here than in the other cases you are talking about.  Israel planting our territories with illegal settlements. Israel refusal to sit down engage with us in a genuine meaningful negotiations to end the conflict. We have been urging the Israelis to talk about security and borders and the Israeli government - for more than one reason - are adamant about refusing to sit down with the Palestinians to discuss an end to the conflict.  This decision essentially puts the Obama administration in a bind and U.S. officials were evidently unsuccessful in trying to dissuade Abbas from moving forward. So what effect do you think this could have on the Palestinian relationship with the U.S.?  We have never sought confrontation with the U.S. administration. The United States has been trying to bridge the gaps between the sides. We have been forthcoming and receptive to every U.S. proposal. We worked with them on every suggestion and idea to move the process forward and they know that very well. We do not want our relationship with the U.S. administration to sour or to deteriorate...  Well you back them into a corner here with this vote.  You should not look at it as an effort to undermine the United States or to undermine their efforts in bridging the gaps between the two.  Thank you so much.  Thank you. 