 This summer was marked by public debates about Confederate monuments. But there is another debate going on about the Confederate battle flag. What message does that flags send these days especially when it is on display in the North? North Country Public Radio's Zach Hirsch asked his neighbors in Plattsburgh N.Y. a city near the Canadian border why they embrace the controversial symbol?  The Confederate battle flag in my neighbor's window made me curious. Then one day the flag was gone and that made me even more curious. Maybe they had second thoughts.  Hi. My name's Ricky Barber. I am from Plattsburgh N.Y.  So I decided to knock on his door and ask.  I am originally from Hazlehurst Ga.  Ricky Barber is 28 years old. He is worked in warehouses and auto mechanic shops but he is out of work right now. He says he had the flag in the window because he needed a curtain. And he took it down only because he is moving not because he thought he would offend someone he says. Now it is hanging at his fiancee Becca Lee's house across town on the bedroom wall. Lee is 30 and she is from Kansas.  We are not a racist couple and we own the flag.  She has a lot of family in the South and describes herself as a Southern belle.  I do not judge people. I do not care what color skin they are. If they need defending I am going to do them. That is what a Southern belle does.  We talk in Lee's backyard. People are grilling and some kids are playing nearby. One of the kids happens to be black. Barber and Lee say they are not hateful people. Barber says everybody should have equal rights no matter what color their skin is. We all bleed red.  Technically everybody is the same race. Some people have darker pigment-ism to the skin. Some people do not.  But the way he talks about race many would find it insulting.  I do not care who you are. You can be blacker than the ace of spades. I mean you are going to bleed red no matter what.  As we talk they paint an unrealistic picture of the experience of people of color in America. Lee believes it is sometimes OK for white people to use the N-word. Barber does not accept the idea that black people are at a disadvantage in the criminal justice system.  Equal rights is out there for everybody. But it all depends on what you do to end up in prison or in jail. It is life choices that put you there.  I think we might agree to disagree on that one because I... On average black people are incarcerated in state prisons at a rate that is more than five times the rate of whites. And in certain states that ratio is more than 10 to 1. That is according to a study from the Sentencing Project a nonpartisan group that advocates for prison reform. It is one of a catalog of studies showing that African-Americans are not treated the same as whites in the U.S.  That is actually not true because I see more white people that get arrested for drugs than black people. So I do not see how somebody's going to sit there and say that you know a black man gets more prison time.  Northern New York is mostly white and rural. So it makes sense that someone living here might know more white people who were arrested. But Barber believes skin color just is not a factor here or anywhere in the U.S. Our conversation goes on like this. A lot of phrases and ideas that make many Americans uncomfortable or angry just do not bother Barber and Lee. The same goes for the Confederate flag they fly. Barber says he knows the South was fighting for slavery in the Civil War but that is not why he flies the flag.  It is because of my heritage where I come from not because you know I am are racist or because you know I do not like black people. That is not the case. I have black family. I have black friends.  Barber also says it is how he honors the Southern soldiers who died in the Civil War. But political scientists and historians say it mostly disappeared right after the Civil War and came back almost a century later as a symbol of racism even violence. It was embraced by the Ku Klux Klan during the civil rights movement. Barber and Lee say all that modern history is in the past. They say the Confederate flag is now just the flag of the South. But they also say it is becoming something else.  You will hear all these people you know that gathered down in the South that are blacks. What about their Black Lives Matter flags and stuff like that? That is pushing back on the white people. Us. white people you know we retaliate by hey we got the Confederate flag and what not you know?  So is that retaliation against...  It is not you know retaliation exactly. It is more of look. This is you know our flag. This is what we stand for. You guys had the Black Lives Matter flags. That is what you guys stand for.  Suddenly the conversation gets even more complicated.  Can you come here for a second please?  He calls over the African-American child who is playing nearby.  Are you opposed to the Confederate flag at all? Do you have a problem with that flag as a black person?  We cannot use the 13-year-old's voice because we do not have parental permission. The teen looks uncomfortable. Barber and Lee keep pushing for an answer. And there is a long pause. Then the teenager tells them that the Confederate flag is flown by people who want to have slavery happen again in America. This is not coming from the media or an historian or a liberal professor but from a child who is playing right here in their neighborhood. The four of us stand there awkwardly. Barber and Lee seemed stunned.  Does not that make you reconsider you know what it means.  We would just have to have a long talk explaining why we do it ourselves. Have I ever disrespected you in any way to show that I was racist?  The teen says no. And Lee gets back to her argument.  To me it is a Southern flag. And we grown to not be a racist type. And that is why I hang up the flag is to show what the flag was in the past. And now we get to bring that to our children saying hey this is what the flag meant back in the day. Now this is what it means now to us.  We talk a while longer about Charlottesville Va. about Dylann Roof the white supremacist who photographed himself with the battle flag before murdering nine black people in a church. They both say they would take it down temporarily if they were afraid of offending company or neighbors. But at the end of the day they are going to keep flying the Confederate flag. For NPR News I am Zach Hirsch in Plattsburgh N.Y. 