 Back now to this week's tragic events in Libya.   Yesterday afternoon President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton paid tribute to four Americans who died there. The president stood by four draped coffins at Andrews Air Force Base and said their sacrifice would not be forgotten.  They knew the danger and they accepted it. They did not simply embrace the American ideal they lived it.  We turn now to Ryan Crocker one of America's most famous diplomats. Mr. Crocker was most recently U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan from 2011 to 2012. Before that he headed up the U.S. embassies in Iraq Pakistan Syria Kuwait and Lebanon. He was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2009. Mr. Crocker joins us from his home in Spokane Washington. Mr. Ambassador thanks for being with us.  Thank you Scott.  What went through your mind and heart when you heard the news about Ambassador Stevens?  My first reaction was this did not happen. I you know just felt that punch in the stomach. He was a good friend. We are a pretty small tribe and I have known him for two decades. And then that we would lost a truly great diplomat and that the American people had lost a tremendous representative and the Libyans a great friend.  Mr. Ambassador now that - alas with the advantage of some hindsight let me raise some of the practical questions people have this week. Should that consulate have been better protected especially on September 11th?  The reality is you know while all of our embassies are protected by Marines most of our consulates are not. We simply do not have enough Marine guards to go around. So even places in vulnerable zones like Libya the norm would be to have diplomatic security which is U.S. and host country protection. The second point I would make is - and I have seen this up close and for real - one of the most terrifying and the most lethal and the hardest to defend against Marines or no Marines is a mob. The reality is we do business in dangerous areas. We can manage risk but we cannot prevent it if we do our jobs. And you know we lose diplomats. We just lost a great one.  You have represented the United States and several other countries where demonstrations and mob actions going on now. Recognizing all situations are different obviously but what does is your judgment   I think there are a number of motivations that drive mobs. One of them obviously will be the issue of the day in this case the video but there are often are factors that go well beyond that. In the case of Syria again when I was there in the '90s in addition to evidence of the Syrian government hand in organizing the demonstrations demonstrators knew well that you know we might gas them tear gas. And we did. But their government would shoot them. So it is a way of you know of expressing anger and hostility but not catching a bullet in the process.  I found myself this week thinking about a number of U.S. ambassadors I have known in conflict zones who seem to make a point of getting out and talking to people. How do ambassadors address the necessary concern for their security and yet not wanting to appear as if they are surrounded by an armed camp?  You know I have served in my career in some pretty tough places. In three of those postings a predecessor of mine as ambassador was assassinated. That makes it all the more important not less to have a direct sense of you know what the mood is. And the way you do that is you work with your security not against them. There are ways to do it. To get out and still minimize your risk but we have lost people. Frankly you know we are going to lose others if we are doing our job right.  Mr. Ambassador any words thoughts you would like to send out to U.S. diplomatic personnel especially maybe in zones of concern if I might call it that way this weekend?  To all of my former colleagues I am with you but I have been struck by the way Americans have responded to this you know. Diplomacy is not practiced in a vacuum so out of the enormous tragedy of Chris' loss I hope my colleagues will take some heart in that his death has brought a better understanding and awareness of what America's foreign service does to keep the country safe secure and to advance our interests.  Ambassador Ryan Crocker speaking with us from Spokane Washington. Mr. Ambassador thanks very much.  Thank you Scott.   And to hear more of our conversation with Ambassador Crocker you can go to our website npr.org. You are listening to NPR News. 