 Little of this would have happened without the aggressive and unrelenting work of a pair of Los Angeles Times reporters. But as NPR's David Folkenflik reports the story almost escaped their attention.  You hear about reporters getting threatened dismissed or just plain ignored. Not so common the experience of one young reporter who broke a lot of those stories in Bell. As he waded into a crowded city council meeting there an older woman asked him...  You are Ruben Vives from the L.A. Times. I said yes. And she just says give me a hug. And so I hug her and then everyone's clapping and yelling and it is like yeah and taking pictures and it was just a bizarre thing to me.  Local activist Cristina Garcia gave me a tour.  Well I mean you have you know your furniture stores  mom and pop stores. You know you had a little bike shop that we just passed up a place that does lawn mower repair. This is where we have the food bank so every Thursday they pass out food to the residents.  Many residents depend on public jobs or public assistance. A sizeable number are not citizens. Many kept quiet when their public service taxes doubled. Garcia says the door was open...  For these predators to come in and take advantage of the situation.  Predators.  Yeah. I mean I really feel like they prey on these communities. It is an easy target. In this case I think it is bankrupted the community.  Vives tripped over the story in June. The neighboring city of Maywood was so strapped for cash it wanted Bell to take over city services like policing. But his colleague Jeff Gottlieb learned of an investigation into pay for Bell's city council. Their attention swung to Bell and they demanded public records.  Every day I am calling the city clerk. I am telling her listen we really do not want to sue you but you know we will and then when we go to court and we win because we will we will ask the judge to make you pay our legal bills because that is what the statute says.  The city manager Robert Rizzo relented but they had to meet him at a meeting room near a city park for kids. That was weird enough - but nine city officials and lawyers showed up.  Pretty quickly I ask Bob Rizzo how much money do you make? He just kind of coughed out 700000 and I was not quite sure I was hearing him correctly. I thought maybe he said 7000 maybe he was talking weekly monthly. So I said how much? And he says 700000.  Rizzo was being modest. He was being paid 1.5 million in all. The reporters painstakingly pieced together the puzzle. Only 400 people took part in a 2005 vote that made Bell a charter city. New city commissions gave council members new posts that paid them big bucks out of the public eye.  Unidentified Man And they will not get away with what they are doing. We will not be happy until we get our money.   But in a perfect world someone would have called foul years ago.  Our policy pretty much is we report the news we do not make the news.  Arnold Adler of the Wave community newspapers has covered Bell since 1980. He also covers 14 other cities and says he does not have time to do much more than make calls after official meetings.  So we do not have the people or staff to go digging around hoping that we stumble on a scandal.  When I met with more than two dozen angry Bell residents at the makeshift office of community group I learned some had gone to city hall to get their own answers.  We never have access. They keep giving you the runaround they keep telling you oh we will call back or we will get you know just give us a call back. No one could ever help us. No one was ever around.  Miguel Sanchez a special education teacher's aide says the lies only stopped when the L.A. Times came to town.  As a common citizen I do not know what my rights are with the city. I do not know really how to attack them. But with The Times they have you know their legal departments. Of course they are able to get more than a regular Joe like me.  David Folkenflik NPR News. 