 Russia has sent attack aircraft to Syria to a new base that the Russians are creating in Latakia. This deployment prompted a phone call between the U.S. Defense Secretary and his Russian counterpart. Of course the United States had cut off military to military contacts over Russia's aggression in Ukraine. But now it seems the two countries are cooperating on Syria in some ways. Steven Lee Myers a correspondent for The New York Times has been following the story and what it might say about Russia's changing position in the world. Mr. Myers is the author of the soon to be published book The New Tsar Rise And Reign Of Vladimir Putin. He joins us in our studios. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you.  Of all the things Russia could be doing now why do they choose to throw their arms around Bashar al-Assad and step up military aid?  I do not think it is new that they are supporting Assad at all. I mean they have been pretty consistent from the beginning of the uprising initially peaceful protest against the regime. And then as it descended into civil war Russia has all along provided weapons provided support political and diplomatic efforts to shield Assad's government from action for example at the United Nations where Russia has a veto. I think what is new now is that they are looking at the situation in Syria as becoming more and more dire.  But you know there is a difference between U.N. vetoes and supplying - and military supplies and actually putting your own combat personnel or potential combat personnel on the ground.  I think that they are looking at the situation and understanding that right now there is a real danger that Assad's government can fall. And if that happens what will replace that and how do you prepare for that when you are invested as heavily as they have been? Again this is not new support. They have always had the naval base there. They have always had advisers on the ground. I have heard a lot over the summer about the increasing Russian concern about the imminent fall of Assad.  Well the U.S. had - at least as far as we can judge - had considered the potential fall of Bashar al-Assad to be good news and something that could lead to a better situation.  I think that is where the huge difference is between the Russian perspective and the United States certainly but in other Western countries as well. Russia looks at the fall of Assad as an apocalyptic event. And we can look at it from our perspective and think of Assad as a horrific dictator who is contributed enormously to the civil war that is unfolded over the last few years. But in Putin's mind especially he sees the legitimate government of Syria as being Assad. And that if that falls what will replace it? And I think that is a concern where we do have some common ground because if Assad governments falls the ISIS expansion I think will only continue. And there will be other groups that will be vying for power. There will be a vacuum. It will be what is happened in Libya.  What are the risks as you see them of increased Russian involvement?  I think the risks first of all is that it becomes a proxy war between Russia Iran and Syria on one side and the United States Turkey Saudi Arabia the West on the other. And even though we share a common enemy I believe in the Islamic State you could have us each fighting it in different ways that inevitably whenever you introduce military forces into a region you could have the United States bombing Russian troops who are fighting the Islamic State. You could have Russian forces bombing the rebels that we have supported in Syria or coming into conflict with you know planes flying overhead as they each carry out airstrikes. It seems to me that there needs to be - and I think this is what is happening now with the talks that have begun - a way to deconflict that.  Stephen Lee Myers - his book The New Tsar The Rise And Reign Of Vladimir Putin comes out later this month. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you. 