 In the world of roller derby women rule. There are more than 400 women's teams in the U.S. alone with thousands of skaters. Now men are getting into the game. About 30 men's teams have sprung up in the past few years. Jed Kim has the stories of some of those men and the lengths they go to play.   To be a roller derby skater you got have a good name.  I am Filthy McNasty and my real name is Brendan McMullen.  My name is Maulin Brando also known as Joe Mihalchik. You would be surprised the amount of people who do not know each other's real names.  These men are members of the New York Shock Exchange which is quite possibly the strongest men's roller derby team in the country. Right now they are standing inside their practice space an old cigar warehouse in Queens. They are watching about a dozen men in helmets and pads chase each other down.   It is the team's last practice before their first bout of the season and the coaches are checking on everyone's progress. Team captain Jonathan Rockey's watching one skater in particular.  Futures John's got guts. That is what I like. He is got guts. He is out John. Go John.  Futures John is a rookie and he is nearing the end of his tryout period. If Jonathan and the other coaches like what they see today he will make the team. Co-captain Maulin Brando says only then will he get to pick a real derby name.  It is kind of the tradition that you do not officially get to use your name until you have made a team. Sometimes you know people call it rookies or fresh meat. Or we call it ours our futures.  Futures John is not the only one trying to make a name for himself - all of the men are. Rookies like John are important because they represent growth. The men may be fighting for respect but Futures John is just trying to stay on his skates.  Oh I just watched Angelo enjoy himself knocking over Futures John.  Futures John whose real name is Jonathan Dawkins is less than half the size of the player who hit him.  Ow. Now I know what it feels like to get launched 10 feet in the air.  How are you feeling about the testing?  Pretty good. A little bit comprehensive I mean let us say. We have been doing some stuff that was not even on the test but it is all good.  His ordeal is worth it. At the end of practice team captain Jonathan Rockey asks for the rookie's skates.  Futures John will you take a knee right here please?   Can you tell me the name that you wish to be known as?  Jimmy Rage.  On behalf of the team I dub thee Jimmy Rage our newest teammate on the New York Shock Exchange. Please rise and take your skates and join us teammate. Let us give a round of applause for Jimmy Rage.   For NPR News I am Jed Kim. 