 An ogre is a terrible menace to village society. There are only so many places to hide when its on a feeding frenzy. Imagine then an odious ogre. That is what Norton Juster has done in The Odious Ogre his new children's book illustrated by Jules Feiffer. And its publication is cause for celebration. It reunites Norton Juster and Jules Feiffer for the first time since their beloved book The Phantom Tollbooth was published nearly 50 years ago. They both join us now. Norton Juster is at member station WFCR in Amherst Massachusetts. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Thank you.  And Jules Feiffer is on Martha's Vineyard. And I should say to you welcome back Jules Feiffer. Mr.  Well thank you very much.  Let me start with you Jules. What took so long for you to reunite with Norton? Mr.  Well he was slow in writing this book.  And Norton what took you so long to get back with Jules Feiffer and why was this book the one? Mr.  Well firstly I thought it was very quick. It is only 50 years. Wait for the next one.  Mr.  But...  Well go back to the first book The Phantom Tollbooth. Remind us of how that book came about. Mr.  I had started to do a little story to avoid doing some stuff I was supposed to be doing and it sort of developed into a book. And while I was writing it Jules - who was living in the same apartment we were one floor apart - Jules saw some of the book some of it and started doing some illustrations for it. And they were marvelous and so we just  we did the one thing that publishers dont like you to do is come in with a story and the illustrations all set so the editor doesnt have much to say about it. Mr.  I should expose Norton here. He had gotten a grant from a famous foundation that will go unnamed for 5000 I think to write a book on urban design. And instead...  Mr.  ...wrote The Phantom Tollbooth. And as he wrote each chapter it was his first book he was so happy about it and so excited he would come downstairs to my studio room and read me stuff. And of course I began scribbling stuff. And thats how it all began.  I want to refresh some of our listeners' memories or actually introduce some people to The Phantom Tollbooth. Norton Juster I would like you to read for us. The protagonist Milo goes through a phantom tollbooth that arrives in his room one day. And he acquires a watchdog named Tock and they arrive at the Word Market in Dictionopolis. Mr.   A large banner proclaimed Welcome to The Word Market. And from across the square five very tall thin gentlemen regally dressed in silks and satins plumed hats and buckled shoes rushed up to the car stopped short mopped five brows caught five breaths unrolled five parchments and began talking in turn... Greetings. Salutations. Welcome. Good Afternoon. Hello. Milo nodded his head as they went on reading from their scrolls. By order of Azaz the Unabridged King of Dictionopolis Monarch of letters Emperor of phrases sentences and miscellaneous figures of speech we offer you the hospitality of our country nation state commonwealth realm empire palatinate principality. Do all those words mean the same thing gasped Milo? Of course. Certainly. Precisely. Exactly. Yes they replied in order.  Hmm. Norton Juster reading from The Phantom Tollbooth. Now to this marvelously odious ogre. Norton Juster what was the inspiration for this particular book because it is for younger kids compared to those who were reading Phantom Tollbooth? Mr.  I am not sure it is for younger kids. I am not sure it is for older kids or even adults. I think it is just a good story. And it was a story I would messed with for a long period of time probably over 30 years. And I kept putting in an envelope and putting it back in the drawer taking out and looking at it again. And about a year or so ago a little more maybe I took it out and I began to figure out what had to be done with it and began writing. And I just loved the story. I have always had difficulties being a kid growing up in the city with bullies. And I loved the idea of doing-in a bully.  Mr.  So thats how I proceeded.  Jules Feiffer we are familiar with your pen and ink drawings. I mean certainly all the cartoons you used to do for The Village Voice. But you are using a lot of different materials here. It looks like you are using watercolors and you know some - perhaps a sketch pencil in gray. I mean you were working with a lot of more... Mr.  Whatever I can grab within reaching distance I used.  Mr.  My method is chaos ink. It is centered on the ogre and I wanted to do the biggest meanest filthiest ogre in the history of ogreship and one who could barely fit on the page - and he does barely fit on the page. And to do that I used a brush line. There is these brush pens where on one end is a watercolor brush and on the other there is an ink marker. And you put water on it and it spreads. So I played with that and had a wonderful time. And all the people in the village though and the girl who is the heroine of this story I used pen and ink because she is more delicate. Mr.  I think Jules is not telling you enough about this because any picture book any book with illustrations the illustrations do a lot more than just illustrate the story. They have to bring a kind of an environment to the story. They have to add a whole lot of things that the words dont say and that is if it is a good picture book. And this really does it. I mean the book comes to life you know from the textbook through the illustrations which add a lot more than is in the text.  Hmm. I mean the expression on the ogre's face when he first comes upon the girl for example. I mean that tells a story in itself before you even read the words. Mr.  Well just that one tantrum scene. I mean there is no way I could describe that. I could take 10 pages to describe it and it would not come off like Jules has it in that one double-page spread.  I love the tantrum scene because the ogre is trying to frighten this young lady. And Jules this illustration of all of the stances that the ogre takes during his tantrum it does remind me of your like Ode to Spring I mean it is almost...   Looks like he is dancing. Mr.  As it should it was my break - you know I was waiting the entire book to get to those two pages. And it was my breakout Singin' in the Rain number you know. The Ogre at that point is Gene Kelly in disguise and leaping and jumping and doing you know splashing in the rain and doing everything violent and shocking  and at the same time somewhat adorable.  Norton Juster let us hear a little bit of The Odious Ogre. I would like you to read from the place where the ogre has discovered this cottage and this young lady. Mr.   Outside the cottage a young girl worked busily in the garden. She had not noticed the ogre's approach. This is just too easy he thought with the slightest hint of disappointment. But as the most celebrated ogre in the countryside he did feel obliged to be terrifying. So he stomped his enormous feet and roared his unbearable roar. The trees swayed to the ground. The birds flew off in great confusion. And even the very substantial cottage seemed to shutter. He licked his lips. Oh pardon me the girl said softly not looking up I didnt realize anyone was there. Ill be right with you. The ogre looked startled. His face turned slightly pale. His mouth dropped slightly open and even his hands began to tremble slightly. Whats going on he mumbled? Why didnt she just shrivel up and collapse? He stood there not sure what to do. How dare she treat me this way?  That is a great scene. And the illustration you almost feel like the ogre is indeed starting to shrivel and his big hand is shaking. And again the language I love the language which you say is great for kids. And I love that the ogre says his vocabulary is due to the fact that he ate a dictionary while consuming a head librarian.  Mr.  Yeah I couldnt resist that. Yes.   Yeah what do you mean you couldnt resist?  Mr.  Well I mean the whole idea of improving your vocabulary by swallowing a large dictionary.   Yeah. Ah any plans for more collaborations? Mr.  I hope so. Mr.  Fifty years from now.  Mr.  We might do one in 40 even. I dont know. Mr.  Yeah Norton is doing a lot of pushups. Im on a diet. And who knows the next 20 30 years we may come up with something.   But Im glad. I mean seriously both of you are 80 years old. Mr.  Eighty-one. Mr.  Thats what we are 81. Well if you do the work you care and it remains fun - thats what I love about doing kids' books which I got into at a relatively late age. It returned me to what I loved as a little boy which was reading Sunday supplements and those glorious Sunday comic strips which were full-page and great color back in those years. And so this is basically like revisiting my youth and getting paid for it.  Illustrator Jules Feiffer and writer Norton Juster their book for kids is The Odious Ogre. Gentlemen thank you very much. Mr.  Thank you. Mr.  Thank you Liane.  To behold the marvelous ogre tantrum for yourself and to read excerpts of both books visit our website NPR.org. 