 The walrus sounds you just heard were authentic recorded on a beach in northwest Alaska. But some of the sounds you hear in wildlife documentaries may not be. That is what veteran environmental filmmaker Chris Palmer writes in his book Shooting in the Wild An Insider's Account of Making Movies in the Animal Kingdom. Mr. Palmer exposes some of the dirty secrets behind nature filmmaking like manufactured sounds and staged animal fights. Chris Palmer is in our studio. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Thank you Liane. It is a pleasure to be here with you.  It is nice to have you here. Some of the practices you write about are ones you have used when making documentaries for TV and movies. Can you give us just an example how you staged a nature shot? Mr.  Well I will give you two examples. One is when we used animals from game farms and pretended they were wild animals. An example there would be wolves. We made an IMAX film on wolves and we found it very hard to get shots of real live free-roaming wolves. So we went to a game farm and rented them. We took them out and the audience thought that they were wild wolves. So we misled the audience. So that is an example. Another example is to do with sound. One of the first films I ever made was on bears. There was a particular scene and it was of a grizzly bear. And you could hear the water dripping off its paws.  We have an example of that particular scene. Let us hear that sound.   What are we really hearing here? Mr.  What you are really hearing is my very talented sound guy with a basin full of water ruffling his hand and elbow in the water recording those water sounds and then cleverly matching it to the video that we shot - with a long lens. We shot that beautiful shot of a grizzly bear about a mile away across a valley.  Let me ask a technical question. When your cameras are rolling are you recording sound? Mr.  Well sometimes yes sometimes no. On our IMAX cameras usually not. And the sound sometimes can be sync sound if you are clever enough and the wind is not blowing - and that very rarely happens. Or as I have indicated you can actually manufacture sounds in the studio to make them sound real when they are not.  Give us another example. Mr.  Well an example would be when you see an eagle taking off majestically from the top of a mountain. You hear its wings beating. That sound will invariably be made by an umbrella opening and closing. Another example Liane is when you watch a film from Africa and you see a lion biting into the neck or limb of a Thomson's gazelle. What you might well be listening to there is - in terms of sound - is actually a piece of celery being broken because that sounds very much like a lion biting into flesh.  Why do filmmakers take these shortcuts then - the manufactured shots the post-production sounds? Mr.  To save money. Even these big companies like National Geographic and the BBC and Discover and Animal Planet they are all working on very tight budgets. Thirty years ago we might have the money to shoot for three months. Nowadays it is more like no three days. And you have to come back with the footage if you want to be hired again as I have said. So you know you are under tremendous pressure.  Some of your colleagues are not very happy about this book. What are you hearing? Mr.  They are not happy because they feel like I am a magician giving away the trade secrets which I am doing - because I think there should be much more transparency in these films than there really is. But many of my colleagues are absolutely delighted for the first time this is being discussed. But a few of my colleagues think that I am being smug and sanctimonious and you know should not be giving away these trade secrets because it will spoil people's enjoyment of these films. And they feel I am being critical of them. So you know it is understandable their reaction is one of resentment.  What happens during your next film when you find you cannot get the sound of the animal or you do not get that money shot that you need? Mr.  Well I think you know that is a very good question cause I think there is a trade-off. Sometimes you will not get what you want because it is ethically the right thing to do. And your ratings will go down. So there is a penalty sometimes for doing the right thing. On the other hand the challenge is now with filmmakers like myself and all my colleagues in this business to come up with clever innovative fresh ways of dealing with these issues so we can both be entertaining and ethically correct.  Chris Palmer is a wildlife filmmaker and professor who heads the Center for Environmental Filmmaking at American University here in Washington D.C. He is also the author of the book Shooting in the Wild published by Sierra Club Books. Thanks for coming in. Mr.  It is a pleasure. Thanks for having me Liane. 