 Just before Hurricane Florence came ashore Federal Emergency Management Agency director Brock Long offered a warning.   Just because the wind speeds came down please do not let your guard down. The storm surge forecast associated with this storm has not changed.  Yeah - not as much wind plenty of water. And NPR's Greg Allen is on the line from Wilmington N.C. Good morning Greg.  Good morning Steve.  So what is it like there?  Well we have been getting heavy rain and high winds since yesterday evening. But right now we are starting to get the - the top winds from the eye wall of the storm are coming through. And you know they have come down from where they were to about 90 miles per hour - Category 1 level. But those are still pretty powerful winds...  Yeah.  ...That we are feeling here. And of course as you say that is less important than the water where that is been the big issue here. The storm surge has started to be felt along the coast and we have had real problems in the New Bern area which is north of here up on the Neuse River where the water got pushed in by the storm starting yesterday. And they saw at least a 10-foot storm surge the North Carolina Department of Transportation says. And we have had search and rescue crews out through the evening - through the night overnight rescuing people. We have heard of hundreds of people being taken from their homes up there in the New Bern area.  Yeah I am just looking at a map here. New Bern is a little way inland. It is nowhere near the beach. But you are saying that water was pushed up a river and it is by a river there. And that is why the flooding is taking place.  Exactly. There is a couple of rivers there and the Neuse River is the one that is flooded. And it is from the Pamlico Sound. And as the rotation of the storm it just - starting yesterday started pushing that wall of water ahead of it. And they started seeing that early. And you know a lot of people evacuated but some people did not. And they are the ones who are calling now. And we are hearing calls in the media of people in their attics you know talking about waiting for rescue. And the crews are out there trying to do that.  Is the electricity holding up?  No. We have lost our power here at least where I am - at the hotel I am at in Wilmington. We know there is hundreds of thousands of power out here. I would say that it is just climbed - if you have lost power in Wilmington then you have lost a lot more people. So we are over 300000 I would think at this point just in North Carolina alone.  Oh you are saying that Wilmington is the central area the place where power is going to stay if it is going to stay anywhere. So in rural areas it must be really bad at this point.  Right exactly. I think so.  So how many people did stay in their homes as far as you can tell?  Well you know we spent some time in Carolina Beach the other day and it was a ghost town. You know everything - some whole sections of town were just boarded up and no one was around. But you did find people there. So you know it is a very - the vast majority of people left. But you are always going to have some people who believe that they have the supplies they have the wherewithal to stay. And you hear time and again people say well my home has never flooded. You know? And the message we have got from emergency managers here is that this is an unprecedented storm. So you know we will find out by the end of the day whether the people who stayed were right to do so or not. You know besides New Bern we have not got the reports of flooding elsewhere. But you know they are coming as these rivers start to crest.  So I am just thinking of basic numbers here - the wind speeds Category 1 90 miles an hour - could be worse storm surge - pretty bad. You want to know how many feet that is. But the other question is the speed at which this hurricane is moving because a slow-moving hurricane means more and more and more rain. Are people expecting massive rain inland as had been feared?  Well that is definitely going to be the issue. We have already had flood warnings issued for communities upriver in the Cape Fear River Basin. They can see that there is going to be flooding there later in the week because the river is going to be cresting. And that is going to happen here and throughout the Appalachian region.  OK. NPR's Greg Allen has the first of the perspectives we are getting on the storm. Greg thanks very much.  You are welcome. 