 It is MORNING EDITION from NPR News. Good morning. I am David Greene.  If you have ever wondered what it would take to build your own electric car two guys in Missouri can show you how to do it.  We are going to go ahead and install this on our spindle. But what I want to do first is schlop a bunch of axel grease on here.  Schlop. A pair of entrepreneurs want to bring electric car technology to the masses. And they are doing it by hosting an online video where they put cars together piece-by-piece. Jacob McCleland of member station KRCU in Cape Girardeau Missouri reports on an eclectic do-it-yourself convention kicking off there today.  Jack Rickard and Brian Noto have developed something of a cult following on their webcast EVTV or Electric Vehicle Television produced from their garage here in Cape Girardeau Missouri. Every week they talk in soul-crushing detail about the intricacies of how to gut a gas-guzzling road warrior and convert it into an all-electric vehicle. And today they are hosting the Electric Vehicle Conversion Convention at the Cape Girardeau airport.  Most gatherings are about how electric cars are cool and how they will solve the environmental problems. We are more about how to build an electric car.  Within days of mentioning a convention on EVTV 130 do-it-yourselfers from eight countries signed up to come to Cape Girardeau to share ideas and to learn from the master. Like Nabil Hanke from Des Moines who wants to convert a Volkswagen Super Beetle.  He is an eccentric crazy guy that happens to have enough money to play with the toys he wants to play with. What he is doing is something that is absolutely crucial.  For Rickard it is about leveling the playing field.  You can now build a car anyone can much less a manufacturer. It is not a golf cart. It feels good.  This is a replica a fiberglass a kit car of a 1957 Porsche 356 Speedster.  That is Brian Noto the other half of the EVTV team. We hit the streets to get a feel for one of the converted cars.  Turn on the key.  OK.  And that is it. Let it go. Yeah. I would pull it down into second gear straight towards you.  So I am about to drive a battery-powered Porsche.  A battery powered Porsche. A hundred percent battery electric with lithium ion batteries.  But really is this thing safe? Missouri Highway Patrol Lieutenant John Hotz says sure. But it has to done right. He says the main problem has been do-it-yourselfers who do not correctly convert power steering and power brake systems.  If they do not do that then you are trying to use that system and it is not going to work as it was designed. So that is the biggest concern. As long as those things have been properly addressed there is not a lot of safety issues with the vehicles as far as actually driving them on the road.  So why in the world would someone pour that kind of money into a car when the major car makers cannot seem to find much of a market for their own electric vehicles? For some it is simply a hobby. Others just love to tinker with gadgets. Jack Rickard says it reminds him of the early days of the Internet.  I cannot tell you who they are going to be anymore than I could have told who would be running Google or Facebook starting 10 years ago. It is most likely two guys in a university who are skipping classes today to build their electric car.  For NPR News I am Jacob McCleland in Cape Girardeau Missouri. 