 Her first event is in mid-October and by that point the campaign will be hot and heavy. In the meantime she is doing events that are more light and breezy. NPR White House correspondent Ari Shapiro has our report.  There may be no such thing as a bad time to visit the Stone Barns Center for Food and Agriculture. But it is also hard to imagine a better time to visit than late September. The leaves are starting to turn and the fields are just giving up the last of their summer vegetables.   The tour started at an outdoor chicken coop where Sarah Hannah was teaching local third graders how to gather eggs without getting scratched.  Unidentified Child But they keep running away.  Restaurant captain Adile Laroussie was turning fresh herbs into tea.  Verbena - we did for the first lady apple mint. Pineapple mint which is the one with the white streaks.  One group of students picked basil for a salad while other kids showed Mrs. Obama how to suck the nectar from the base of a purple flower called agastache.  So what part do I eat?   Inside the Blue Hill Restaurant a string quartet from Juilliard welcomed the first ladies to lunch.   Before the meal began Mrs. Obama explained how the work of this center dovetails with her effort to fight childhood obesity.  Many of these kids may never learn that ketchup comes from a tomato or that French fries actually come from a potato because they are very disconnected from the food that they eat.  A few minutes from Stone Barns a two-term House Democrat is in a tight reelection race. But he could have been light years away. It will be a few more weeks before the first lady wades into the morass of campaigning and fundraising. It is not for lack of demand though. In New York on Thursday President Obama acknowledged that his wife wins the popularity contests in this administration.  I feel grateful that Michelle - so far at least - has not run for any offices I have been running for.   She would beat me thoroughly.  Ari Shapiro NPR News. 