 Today marks 20 years since the deadliest terrorist attack in U.S. history.  We remember September 11 2001 and hear about families who continue to mourn those they lost on that day.  I am Scott Simon.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   In Afghanistan the Taliban is settling in with a new interim government they claim to be more moderate since they were last in power but there is evidence that they are unchanged.  And President Biden is defending his decision to require millions of workers to get vaccinated or face weekly testing. Several Republican governors are threatening to sue. Biden says have at it.   We are playing for real here. This is not a game.  We will bring you more reactions to the plan. Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   For most Americans September 11 2001 remains a searing and unforgettable day.  But there are many who were too young to understand what was happening then as well as an entire generation that does not know anything other than a post-911 world. Today is a chance to remember to reflect and for some to learn about the attacks that killed nearly 3000 people and shattered America's sense of security.  NPR's Scott Detrow will spend the day in Shanksville Pa. where one of the hijacked planes crashed after passengers fought back against the al-Qaida terrorists. Scott thanks for being with us.  Good morning Scott.  This date never passes without observations but this year feels - well it is 20 years. It is a milestone.  Yeah it is a really big year. It is also - it is probably the most that September 11 has been in the national focus on this day since the 10-year anniversary. And a lot has changed in America since then in our politics and our culture. I think we are a lot more divided we are a lot more angry. And the other dynamic this year is that we are still in the middle of another traumatic and deadly communal experience which is of course the ongoing pandemic. Let us think of other things that have changed. A lot's changed in New York. Ten years ago the new World Trade Center was only partially built. Now there is a soaring tower taller than the original Twin Towers. Here in Shanksville there is a full complete memorial for people to visit. And you know over the past month the way we thought about this anniversary has really changed. President Biden was determined to pull the U.S. out of Afghanistan by this date and he did that but it led to violence and chaos in Kabul and the Taliban now in control of Afghanistan.  Scott you have been speaking with a number of families who lost loved ones on United Airlines Flight 93 that crashed into the field there in Shanksville. I wonder what some of them are saying today.  Yeah I spent all summer working on a podcast called Sacred Ground which is all about Flight 93. Twenty years as we have been saying is a lot. Families have been feeling that and a lot of them were honest that it really feels overwhelming. I was struck by the fact that while everyone deals with grief differently many people we talked to came back to some variation of the same theme that no matter how much time passes no matter how many decades are being marked closure never comes. Lori Guadagno told me about this at one point. She lost her brother Rich. He was really her best friend. And she was showing me personal items of Rich's that had been recovered from Flight 93 that she still has. And in the middle of that tough tough moment she made this point.  It is so much harder than I even think it is or would be because I think you know OK 20 years so much time has come and I am at a place where the pain never goes away obviously. I have never had closure in this story. I never will. But I found a place to put it so that I can lead a happy productive life. And I know that is what Rich would want.  And Scott Lori really struggled with these anniversaries at first. She is here today and she told me she is going to read Rich's name during the ceremony today and that is going to be the very first time that she does that. She feels like at the 20-year mark she is finally ready to actively take part in the memorial ceremony.  President Biden will visit all three of the 911 crash sites today. And what can we expect from the ceremonies?  President Biden is starting his day in New York. He flew there last night. He will take part at the World Trade Center. Then he will travel here to visit Shanksville. And then he will end the day in the afternoon at the Pentagon. Biden released a video message last night really speaking to the divisions in the country that are here that really felt very absent 20 years ago today.   We learned that unity is the one thing that must never break. Unity is what makes us who we are America at its best. To me that is the central lesson of September 11.  Former President George W. Bush is speaking here in Shanksville. Of course his presidency was defined by 911 and the many policy choices he made after 911. Vice President Harris is here as well. Later in the day she will be at the Pentagon. And the centerpiece of each memorial service is something that is been going on for 19 years now and started in 2002 and that is the names being read of every single person killed that day and bells tolling to honor them so 40 people here in Shanksville 184 people at the Pentagon and 2753 people who died in Lower Manhattan 20 years ago today.  NPR's Scott Detrow thank you.  Thank you.   It was just a few months after the 911 attacks that the U.S. and allied forces drove the Taliban out of power in Afghanistan. The insurgents had made their country a safe haven for al-Qaida. This week the Taliban now back in control of Afghanistan named a new interim government.  They have also tried to persuade the world that this time they are different. NPR's Jackie Northam is in neighboring Pakistan in Islamabad and joins us. Jackie thanks for being with us.  Thanks very much for having me.  Tell us please about this new interim government. Are there resemblances to the men - and they are all men - who ruled Afghanistan 20 years ago?  Oh yes a very strong resemblance. You know many of them are looking older and grayer and wearing eyeglasses but for the most part it is the same group. There are a few changes though. One very controversial addition is Sirajuddin Haqqani. He is now the interim interior minister. He also has a 10 million FBI bounty on his head for his involvement in suicide attacks and ties with al-Qaida. A couple other things to note Scott - despite assurances from the Taliban this does not appear to be an inclusive government and as you mentioned it is all men. There just does not appear to be any role for women.  Many of the same faces that we saw more than 20 years ago. What about their policies?  Well yeah the Taliban are trying to assure the world that they are a more moderate force than when they ruled Afghanistan before. And you know if you recall the Taliban back then was ruthless. They would you know whip people if they were caught listening to music or flying kites and they had public executions. The Taliban wants people to believe that that is a thing of the past. But you know already we are seeing them crack down hard on any dissent. And it was disturbing to see the Taliban this week announce a version of their Ministry for the Propagation of Virtue and Prevention of Vice. And you know this ministry could allow the Taliban to roam the streets again punishing anyone they see is not leading a pure Islamic life. And that is not a good sign.  Taliban leaders have said they will not support al-Qaida again or other extremist groups that could harm the U.S. and other countries. But they seem to already be falling back on their old ways. Can they be taken at their word?  Well I think proceed with caution would be the best way to describe that. You know in the short term though the U.S. needs to work with the Taliban. There are still Americans and Afghans who are at risk because they worked with the U.S. that are stuck in Afghanistan. And so the U.S. needs the Taliban's help to get them out. Even in the long term though the U.S. may still have to work with the Taliban to help keep extremists like Islamic State or al-Qaida from operating in Afghanistan. But you know this all depends on how much the U.S. is willing to stomach if it sees the Taliban going back to its old ways.  Does the U.S. have any leverage over the Taliban?  Yes yes. Afghanistan is a country that needs foreign aid which pretty much stopped after the Taliban victory. You know the U.S. is holding back billions of dollars. Germany the World Bank the IMF are also freezing millions of dollars in help until they see how the Taliban behaves. But Scott this is a really tricky situation. Afghanistan is on the edge of an economic cliff. You know many businesses have shut. There is high inflation. The Taliban needs this financial support to keep the country running. And that is a lot of leverage that the U.S. can provide.  NPR's Jackie Northam in Islamabad. Thanks so much.  Thank you.   President Biden is requiring vaccinations for tens of millions of American workers as COVID cases and deaths continue to rise in the United States.   This is not about freedom or personal choice. It is about protecting yourself and those around you - the people you work with the people you care about the people you love.  COVID shots are now a requirement for most federal workers and contractors who do business with the federal government. And sometime soon if it all goes according to plan workers at companies with at least a hundred employees will have to get vaccinated or undergo weekly testing. NPR's Andrea Hsu is here to talk about that. Good morning.  Good morning Lulu.  I think the reaction to this vaccine mandate for private sector workers has been pretty strident I understand.  Yeah. Well as you would expect there is been some pushback. Republicans like Gov. Kristi Noem of South Dakota have threatened to take Biden to court over this. And all over social media there are people who are calling it authoritarian and tyrannical. But Lulu a lot of companies have welcomed this move. They want to get their workers vaccinated but they were reluctant to impose their own mandates. There is a frozen foods company that I have been checking in with throughout the pandemic. It is called Bellisio Foods. They have a manufacturing plant in Ohio. And Margot McManus their chief people officer told me philosophically this is a good thing but she is worried about how they are going to execute it. And she thinks this vaccine requirement could make it even harder for them to find workers.  There is an incredible labor shortage. And people are trying to make sure that you are an employer of choice so people want to stay with you. And now we add on a whole 'nother layer of complexity.  She told me right now the company's overall vaccination rate is about 50. But among union workers the ones who are on the production floor it is just 30. So 500-some workers have not gotten vaccinated. And that is after the company has gone to great lengths to convince people - even bringing the vaccines on site.  That is fascinating. Now as we have said at the start there is a testing option for employees...  Yeah.  ...At private companies who will not get vaccinated. What is that going to look like?  Well very few details - Biden said private sector workers must get vaccinated or be tested at least once a week. But it is not clear who is supposed to pay for that. Margot McManus at Bellisio assumes it is going to fall to the companies. And just imagine the cost of testing 500 people weekly not to mention running the operation tracking everything. And there is also a lot of doubt over how effective testing is in keeping workplaces safe. You know yesterday as you said Biden told federal workers and health care workers you do not have that option - testing instead of vaccinations. Washington state did the same thing for its state workers. Here's Gov. Jay Inslee last month.   We are past the point of thinking we can test our way to safety here. Tests are helpful. But what we have learned in the state of Washington is that they do not solve the problem.  And he went on to mention that two corrections workers who were undergoing weekly testing died in the span of just one month.  I mean many workers in the United States are represented by unions. How have they responded to this?  Well we are just starting to hear from unions. They have been strongly encouraging their members to get vaccinated. But even just a few weeks ago many said they were against vaccine mandates. But now the tide seems to be turning. The United Food and Commercial Workers union struck a deal with the meat and chicken producer Tyson Foods over its vaccine mandate. And that resulted in some new paid sick leave for front-line workers. Their stance now is we will work with the administration to ensure that essential workers have a voice in shaping the final rules. And one last thing Lulu the mandate at Tyson Foods seems to be working. They report that since it was announced in early August about half of the workers who were unvaccinated then have gotten it done.  That is NPR's Andrea Hsu. Thank you very much.  You are welcome.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday September 11 2021. I am Scott Simon.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro. UP FIRST is back Monday with news to start your week. Follow us on social media. We are upfirst on Twitter.  And for more news and interviews books and music you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings - find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  