 Last month the Biden administration said it planned to roll out COVID booster shots for most adults in the U.S.   It will make you safer and for longer.  Now an FDA panel has advised against that.  I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. And this is UP FIRST from NPR News.   And in a move the country's foreign minister called exceptional France has recalled their ambassadors to the U.S. and Australia. That decision was made after both countries left France out of a nuclear-powered submarine deal.  And in D.C. today a right-wing rally is planned to protest ongoing criminal cases tied to the violent insurrection on January 6. It is expected to be much smaller than that event but security officials are still prepared for violence. Stay with us. We have got the news you need to start your weekend.   An independent panel of experts complicated the Biden administration's plan to offer most adults in the U.S. a booster shot of the COVID-19 vaccine.  The panel soundly rejected a request by Pfizer to provide its vaccine to people 16 and up. Instead they endorsed a different plan to offer the shot only to high-risk Americans and those 65 and older.  The FDA does not have to go along with this panel's advice but they generally do. NPR's Joe Palca joins us. Joe thanks so much for being with us.  You are welcome Scott.  Let us back up a bit to the request that Pfizer was making. What did they think the argument was for a third dose of the vaccine?  Well they have laboratory data showing that if you take blood from people who have been fully vaccinated over time the antibodies in that blood starts to go down. And at some level they are not protective anymore but nobody knows what that level is. And so - and they found that by giving people a booster they can boost the levels back up. Plus there is extensive evidence from Israel that efficacy may be waning. The longer it is been since you got your shot the more likely it is that you will get a breakthrough infection. Although many of these breakthrough and cases were mild some were serious. And there is also evidence now starting to come from Israel that a booster there can help. In fact Israel is offering the third dose to virtually everyone in the country to stem a fourth wave of COVID that is been washing over the country. But clearly the expert panel known as the Vaccine and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee or VRBPAC to the FDA was not convinced the Israeli experience proved a third dose was for everyone. Paul Offit of the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia is a member of  spoke after the meeting.   We made the decision not to follow Israel's lead which is to just give a third dose period to make it you know a three-dose vaccine now. Rather we are choosing to make it a booster for those at - you know who are over 65 who are at high risk for health reasons or who are at high risk of acquiring the disease because of their occupation.  Joe what was the panel's reason for that? If the vaccine's efficacy seems to be waning why not give a booster to everyone?  Well the evidence was stronger for older people and people at higher risk and there is not a lot of experience with giving a booster. The safety data from Israel for example is only a month or so old. So you want to be careful about giving a third dose or any dose of a vaccine until you know that the benefits are going to outweigh any potential risks.  So where does this all go now?  Well as Offit said the panel made a recommendation to the FDA. The FDA has to decide whether to accept it or not. And then there is another advisory committee that is going to meet this week Wednesday and Thursday. This is the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices that advises the CDC. And they will take a look at what the FDA has done and make their own decision about whether to endorse that and who they think should get vaccinated with a third dose.  The FDA recommendation was for Pfizer. What about Moderna or Johnson  Johnson?  Well right now this is only for people who have had the Pfizer vaccine. I am sure at some point CDC - FDA and CDC are going to start thinking about this thing called mix and match where you start with one vaccine and you maybe go to another. Or maybe it is people are going to get Pfizer and then Moderna. But at the moment it is one - it is just Pfizer. Pfizer is the only one that is been up for review so far.  NPR's Joe Palca thanks so much.  You are welcome.   A diplomatic incident is heating up across the Atlantic.  France has recalled its ambassadors to the U.S. and Australia. That is a rare and serious step.  It is part of the fallout from a deal the U.S. made with the United Kingdom to build nuclear-powered submarines for Australia.  The agreement was announced this week in response to China's military presence in the South China Sea but it left the French out and scuttled a deal that France says it had to build Australia's subs.  NPR's Eleanor Beardsley has been following all this from Paris and joins us now. Hello.  Hello.  I mean we have Australia the U.K. France the United States and China. It seems like a big mess. Recalling your ambassador is a sharp protest. What did the French say about why they did it?  Well you know France says it was blindsided by this announcement by the U.K. U.S. and Australia. It is seen as a stinging public humiliation. French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian called their deal their submarine deal unacceptable behavior between allies. The day before that he called it a stab in the back because as you have mentioned France had its own defense deal with Australia for conventional submarines negotiated in 2016. It was a 43 billion deal. And of course this is going to be completely canceled and replaced with the deal with the U.S. and the U.K.  I mean that is the official side of things. Is this resonating with the French public?  Well you know it is. This is major geopolitics. You are right. The average French person did not know that France had a submarine deal with Australia. But the TV and the newspapers are covering it heavily and people did know about America being back on - in the new nice Biden administration. You know the friendship Franco-American friendship and the trans-Atlantic alliance was renewed after the fallout from the Trump years. So yeah people are following it. And you know Lulu even since the Iraq War the fallout has never been this bad. You know France and Germany were against the Iraq War but nobody recalled their ambassadors. France is America's oldest ally. France even canceled a gala at the embassy in Washington that was last night that was to celebrate a Revolutionary War battle where Washington and Lafayette fought together.    So France is taking this very deeply.  I mean that looks like there is been real diplomatic cost for the U.S. in making this deal. I mean what is the U.S. perspective? What were they hoping to gain through the new alliance with the U.K. and Australia and by leaving out France?  Yeah. Well you know Secretary of State Antony Blinken - he grew up partly in France. He is a French speaker. You know he is been trying to repair things saying the alliance remains crucial. You know the White House put out a statement saying France is a crucial ally. But there is no papering over what is happened here. It is really a dose of realpolitik. And I spoke with analyst Dominique Moisi. He is with the Montaigne Institute. And he says this is all part of a new world order the U.S.'s so-called pivot to Asia which makes old allies not as important as they once were. Listen to what he told me.  The French were considered as a minor party compared with the key interest of deterring China. History has moved from Europe the Middle East now to Asia and Europe. And therefore France are marginalized.  But I mean France is an important ally for the U.S. I mean you know they still have power especially you know regarding China and other key issues.  Well with regard to China France and Europe recognize that China is an authoritarian system mistreating its Muslim population and handled the pandemic not very well. So they are wary. But China is also a major trade partner. And let me note that France has interests in the Pacific. It has islands there. It has strategic interests. But France is looking for a third way in the Pacific. It does not want to get caught in a fight between China and the U.S. And this defense deal with Australia was part of France's way of constructing a third way of dealing with China in the Pacific.  That is NPR's Eleanor Beardsley. Thank you very much.  Thank you.   Security officials in Washington D.C. are on high alert today.  That is because a group of right-wing demonstrators plan to protest the ongoing criminal cases linked to the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol.  The event which will be held near the Capitol building is not expected to be anywhere close to being as large as the violent insurrection at the start of this year but officials say they are taking no chances.  We are joined now by Odette Yousef who covers domestic extremism for NPR. Welcome.  Thank you.  What do we know about this rally? I mean who is organizing it? And why are they organizing it?  It is called the Justice for J6 rally and it is organized by a group called Look Ahead America. The organizers are planning for up to 700 people to be there and they are calling it a 100 peaceful First Amendment exercise. They are also saying it is going to be nonpolitical. But clearly Lulu this is a partisan message. You know they are going to be demanding that federal authorities drop charges against those who were not engaged in violence or destruction of property on January 6. And they are calling those people victims of a political witch hunt. But you know still people who may be sympathetic to that message possibly you know expected to attend have largely been saying they are going to be staying away. A lot of the messaging online has been paranoia that this is a so-called false flag event - you know people speculating that it is secretly organized by the feds to lure people to D.C. and entrap them.  I mean the events of January 6 highlighted serious Capitol security failures. How are police and the other agencies preparing for this rally?  There is been a great deal of preparation. You know the biggest concern from the law enforcement side has been the possibility of clashes between these demonstrators and counterprotesters that will also be gathering in D.C. Yesterday at a news conference the Capitol Police chief said that they have been seeing some chatter online about violence at this demonstration but they noted that they are - you know they do not know if it is credible. But nonetheless agencies at all levels you know state local and federal are taking it seriously. This is a big coordination effort. You know the temporary fencing at the U.S. Capitol is back up. The National Guard is on the ready to provide reinforcement if requested and D.C.'s police force is fully activated this weekend and deployed.  You have been speaking to people who closely monitor these domestic extremist groups. What concerns do they have about this event you know beyond the potential violence?  Well frankly Lulu just the attention that this is getting may be chalked up by them as a win. You know this is a classic strategy from extremist groups - that even if they plan an event that is kind of a dud the promotion that they get through media coverage helps to spread their narrative. I spoke with Alex Friedfeld. He is an investigative researcher for the Anti-Defamation League's Center on Extremism. And he said that this is a real concern for him this risk of further spreading the notion of political prisoners from January 6. Here's what he said.  This whole reframing also serves to normalize the violence which is deeply problematic because if a riot is not a crime if an attempt to overthrow the government is not a crime where do we stand as a country?  So you know authorities are taking this very seriously as a security concern and so that in itself is newsworthy. But we also need to be cognizant that in covering it are we also giving PR to the groups behind it and their cause? It is a bit of a tough call.  That is NPR's Odette Yousef. Thank you very much.  Thank you.   And that is UP FIRST for Saturday September 18. I am Lulu Garcia-Navarro.  And I am Scott Simon. UP FIRST is back on Monday with news to start your week. You can follow us on social media. We are UpFirst on Twitter.  And for more news and interviews books and music you can find us on the radio.  Weekend Edition Saturday and Sunday mornings. You can find your NPR station at stations.npr.org.  