 OK over in Europe there is been a lot debate on what to do about the troubled currency. And today the European Central Bank announced a new plan to bolster the euro at a meeting in Frankfurt. Bank president Mario Draghi is under immense pressure to prevent the collapse of Europe's monetary union. The bank did not lower interest rates as some investors hoped but did unveil steps to ease the eurozone's debt crisis. NPR's Jim Zarroli is in Germany following the events and he joins us now. Good morning.  Good morning Renee.  So European Central Bank President Mario Draghi has said that he will not let the 16 nation eurozone fall apart he will do anything it takes to keep it together. So what is the bank going to do?  Well what he announced this morning is basically what he has sort of been hinting about. He is - he is - the ECB is going to buy government bonds of up to three years duration from some of the weaker indebted countries like Italy and Spain. As you know these countries have what Draghi says are disproportionately high interest rates. It is made it a lot harder for them to pay off their debts. The ECB has a lot of money and the idea is that the ECB will go out into the markets buy up these bonds and that will help bring up interest rates. And the important thing is Draghi is not putting a limit on how much bond buying the ECB is willing to do. So he is sort of sending a message to the markets you know we are ready to stand behind these governments we are going to step in as needed we will keep coming back. The idea is this will stabilize the markets. You know once investors know that a central bank is determined to keep interest rates low then interest rates tend to stay low. The question is whether this goes far enough. But of course we will have to see.  Well - but Jim why not just lower interest rates if that is what they want?  Well - I - they do have the ability to lower interest rates a little bit more. They could have done that today. I think the feeling was - you know it would not really help the economy that much. Just as in the United States you know there is - there is a limit to how much affect that will have on economic growth. I mean this is something different. This is aimed at helping the individual governments that have particular problems with indebtedness to be able to sort of dig out of the debt hole a little bit more easily.  Now part of the reason we are even talking about this is that it is considered a make or break moment for the Central Bank and the eurozone. How far will this plan go to address the underlying problems of eurozone countries especially those weaker ones you mentioned?  Well Draghi was pretty clear about that this morning. He says you know Europe has huge problems it is basically in a recession - economy is shrinking unemployment is very high especially in some countries. And he says it is going to take a long long time to fix that. It is not going to change overnight. But what he is doing will at least help address the debt problem. You know one thing that happens when you are in a recession is that tax revenues fall and it becomes harder for governments to pay off their debt. That is to some extent what is happened in the United States. Investors see that they lose confidence in some governments it can drive up interest rates. You have a vicious cycle. Now the plan that Draghi announced today is sort of intended to try to stop that. At least to the extent that it can.  And leading up to this announcement the Central Bank was taking a lot of heat interestingly from both sides. Some thought he - it should not be stepping in at all. Others criticizing the bank for waiting too long to address the crisis. What about that?  Yeah um Germany in particular has been very opposed to this worried about inflation. The head of the Bundesbank even threatened to resign over it. Germany thinks that the ECB should not be doing this that it should be focused on price stability - or at least some Germans think that. And Draghi says the ECB has - has a backstop in place to control inflation if that is necessary. Jim thanks very much.  Jim thanks very much.  You are welcome  That is NPR's Jim Zarroli speaking to us from Berlin. 