 Now after the killing of the U.S. ambassador to Libya the Google-owned YouTube website took down the video that led to the violence but only in Libya and in Egypt. The trailer for the film The Innocence of the Muslims is still available on YouTube in the United States and in many other places. NPR's Steve Henn reports on the difficult balance American companies attempt to strike.  The videos you can get here on YouTube are not everywhere. Nazi propaganda is banned in Germany. Slurs against Turkey's founder do not appear in that country. So this is not the first time Google's removed videos from YouTube in certain parts of the world. But Andrew McLaughlin the White House's former deputy chief technology officer says there are some aspects of Google's decision yesterday that are unusual.  Normally what I would expect to see is Google waiting for some kind of an official directive or a court order that comes out of the duly constituted legal system in those countries. That is not always possible.  In this case it appears that Google made the decision to take this video off YouTube on its own.  Google is being perceived to have taken these videos down because of the threat of violence.  It could create more problems McLaughlin says because of something known as the heckler's veto.  This is the idea that if you show weakness in your devotion to free speech then all that somebody has to do is threaten to riot in order to get you to take the speech down.  Every minute YouTube receives roughly 24 hours of videos from users. And Google depends largely on users to flag videos that violate YouTube's standards but those standards are broad. Google declined to talk about the details of its decision to take this video down but it did release a statement saying quote This video which is widely available on the Web is clearly within our guidelines and so will stay on YouTube. However given the very difficult situation in Libya and Egypt we have temporarily restricted access in both countries.  Considering the actual violence that is occurred and the risk of more violence in Egypt and Libya it is kind of hard to second-guess their taking down the video in those countries.  Kevin Bankston is the director of the Free Expression Project at the Center for Democracy and Technology.  As for their decision to keep it up in every other country and to minimize the free speech impact of the takedown I think that is definitely the right decision. We do not want violent protestors to be able to enforce a heckler's veto over the entire planet.  Today it is often companies not governments that make these decisions - for millions. Andrew McLaughlin says they are not easy. Before he was at the White House McLaughlin was director of public policy at Google and helped create the policies Google's now using to handle situations like the one unfolding in the Middle East. He says these free speech debates are complicated even when you are dealing with other Western democracies.  In Germany I do not think anybody thinks that publication of Mein Kampf or access to Hitler's diaries is going to lead to a new resurgence of the Nazi party. But the prohibition on that content is part of the national expression of shame and remorse for what took place. And so by disrespecting that as a company you may be sending a signal to that market that - not the one that you want to send. So I think the considerations are more complicated than simply what the First Amendment rules would dictate here in the U.S.  Yesterday authorities in Afghanistan reportedly took steps to ban YouTube completely. McLaughlin says in light of that kind of blanket ban Google's policy of obliging governments with narrowly targeted takedowns actually may help preserve a forum for speech in countries like Egypt and Libya. And while that is true these targeted takedowns may also help Google's YouTube expand and preserve its market. Steve Henn NPR News.   We are glad you are joining us for a free discussion of the issues on this local public radio station supported by your community which brings you MORNING EDITION. You can continue to follow us throughout the day on social media. We are on Facebook. We are on Twitter. You can find us among other places MorningEdition and NPRInskeep. 