 You know there are just a few American metro areas with a baseball team in each league. New York the Bay Area Southern California they have all have at least one winning club. But in Chicago both the Cubs and White Sox are in last place each more than 25 games out of first place in their respective divisions. But hey did you see the Stanley Cup? How can the city that dazzled the world with Michael Jordan and six championships - Walter Payton Mike Ditka and the Super Bowl Shuffle - have two baseball clubs who seem to be in a race to the bottom? Well who better to ask than our old friend Ron Rapoport our former sports voice here on me sports columnist in Chicago. Ron is editor of a new anthology Black Sox to Three Peats A Century of Chicago's Best Sportswriting from newspapers. He joins us from Chicago. Ron so good to have you back.  Always a pleasure Scott. How you been?  I have been fine. So has losing baseball in Chicago just become kind of a local tradition like deep-dish pizza and slipping a fiver to your alderman?  Well what is new about that Scott is nothing. I mean of course. What is different though is that reaction of the fans. The Cubs and the Sox are dead to these people. It is very interesting because it used to be that when the teams were going badly there was a lot of yelling and moaning and screaming and carrying on. Now it is just sort of hey we have got other things to worry about. I am kind of surprised at the change in attitude.  We should note it is not because they do not spend money because the White Sox have the ninth largest payroll usually in excess of 119 million the Cubbies 14th at 104 million. This is more money than a lot of clubs who are winning.  Well the Cubs it is really not a surprise. Their phenoms are phenominating. You know Starlin Castro their great shortstop he is hitting .240. Jeff Samardzija their top pitcher he is eight and 12. They do not have a pitcher on the team with a winning record. The Sox are a conundrum. They were in the race until you know until the last couple of weeks last year and this year they just they just have not got a thing. There is just nothing there. You know Scott it was not always this way in between the two teams. In the new anthology we are talking about the earliest piece in it was written just as the 1906 World Series was about to begin.  By Hugh Fullerton.  Hugh Fullerton...  I read this piece over and over pretending it was 2013.   This was the Cubs and Sox in a World Series.  It was only 107 years ago Scott. You want to hear the headline?  Yeah please.  Sox join Cubs pennant is won. Thousands of baseball fans frantic with joy over victories which bring both flags to Chicago. And Scott spoiler alert Cubs lose.   You say in this anthology that in a sense modern sportswriting was invented in Chicago.  Well Fullerton again our friend says that back around the turn of the 20th century - Fullerton started writing in the 1890s - if you would go to New York the writers would treat the games as sort of solemn very solemn occasions and the writing about it would be pontifical as if to show off their knowledge of the game. Not in Chicago. The papers were brawling the city was gritty. It did not take long for the rest of the country to catch up.  I want to read you one of my favorite passages. Mike Royko in 1987 he is reviewing I put that in quotes a book written - I put that in quotes too - by Keith Hernandez of the New York Mets. They would just won the World Series defeating of course the Cubs in the National League. Mike Royko wrote This is a very solid book. The moment I opened the package and saw what it was about I threw it against my office wall as hard as I could.   Then I slammed it on the floor and jumped up and down on it. I beat on it with a chair for several minutes until I slumped onto my couch emotionally and physically spent. Although slightly scuffed the book was still intact.  That is the funniest sports column I ever read. It ends with him lighting the book on fire sitting back and watching the fire burn and then pretending it is Shea Stadium.  Our old friend Ron Rapoport who is edited a new book Black Sox to Three Peats A Century of Chicago's Best Sportswriting. Wonderful to talk to you again Ron.  Always a pleasure Scott. Do not be a stranger now. 