 This week in Beijing theater fans saw the first-ever Chinese production of A Raisin In The Sun. The play is a classic. It is about a Black family in 1950 Chicago. So how does an all-Chinese cast pull that off? NPR's Emily Feng spent a week backstage and she brought us this.   This Beijing People's Art Theatre's production of A Raisin In The Sun begins with a lost script.  I did not know my mother translated this one. She never mentioned it when she was alive.  That is Ying Da a well-known Beijing actor and the director of this production. His mother Wu Shiliang loved the play written by Lorraine Hansberry and translated it into Chinese in 1963. But the Cultural Revolution a decade-long ideological purge soon hit China. In the chaos the publisher lost the handwritten manuscript. Then last year a friend reached out.  He WeChatted me and told me that there is a script on auction. The translator's name is Wu Shiliang - is not that your mom? I said yeah.  Ying Da bought the script and immediately planned to stage it.   The thorniest challenge however - making it clear to a Chinese audience they are watching an African American family albeit one played by a cast of Chinese actors only speaking Mandarin. Historically Chinese theater solves this by using what we might call blackface. Ying Da knows the history America has with minstrel shows and exoticizing racial caricatures.  I gave it a lot of thought. A lot of my friends - even my son - warned me about this. But you have to find the balance that point in between the Chinese understanding and America's opinions. Without any makeup a Chinese audience would be confused because they do not see too much Black people.  The first-ever Chinese production of a foreign play was Uncle Tom's Cabin in 1907 starring actors in midnight black face paint and curly wigs. Later Chinese theaters would add chin or nose prosthetics to actors playing foreigners. But though potentially offensive now this makeup was done as a sign of empathy and realism.  The goal for this realistic makeup in China is to as closely simulate an authentic kind of representation of a foreigner as possible even though this is not possible.  This is Dr. Claire Conceison a professor at MIT and an expert on contemporary Chinese theater. In the past different theatrical practices have led to a culture clash like in 1983 when Ying Da's father actor and director Ying Ruocheng helped playwright Arthur Miller to stage his play Death Of A Salesman in Beijing. To play the Loman family from Brooklyn in that play the Chinese actors planned to don wigs.  And Miller was kind of horrified  by the wigs that they were showing him because he was not really prepared to see the Chinese actors with you know blond wigs.  But the Chinese cast were bewildered when Miller got rid of the wigs.  Was Miller liberating them from a practice that was outdated and problematic or was he kind of embodying a kind of American neo-imperialism that was grafting our political views and practice?  With A Raisin In The Sun Ying Da reopens a conversation about how race is perceived in the U.S. and China. And he consulted with Conceison and with Harvey Young a theater historian and a dean at Boston College . Young points out Lorraine Hansberry's play has long been a theater classic. Does that mean any actor regardless of ethnicity and complexion can play the African American characters?  Once you become part of the canon how does that work travel? Right? Are there limitations that need to be placed on a production of Fences or A Raisin In The Sun as it moves from the U.S. to Italy to China to Brazil? And that is what we are wrestling with because we now expect anyone can play a Shakespeare role.  In the end Ying Da settled on lightly bronzing the actors' faces and adding wigs full of curls and cornrows. The look is more impressionistic than realistic. It signals the character's Blackness while simultaneously acknowledging the theatrical artifice. The one Caucasian character gets a snow white wig.   Late this August the cast has their first stage rehearsal in full costume and wigs. They are well aware of the gravity of putting on this play amid a heated global conversation about anti-Black racism. I ask Ying Da if that is why he decided to stage this play.  No. It is not that important here. I mean this is probably a terrible thing to say to Americans.  Instead it is the themes of class inequality in Southside Chicago that come across sharp and clear in south Beijing-accented Mandarin. Here's Xu Jingyao who plays Ruth Younger the play's mother struggling to raise her family in a cramped Chicago apartment.   We want to act out the essentials of human nature - the yearning for freedom happiness - that do not differ between race and nationality.  But she also says the specificity of Hansberry's writing and Shiliang's translation give Chinese audiences access to 1950s Chicago.   I could immediately understand why we need to abandon racial and class oppression - though that oppression is what gave rise to this play and also gives it its power.  The actors also say their makeup and costumes let them access an unfamiliar identity. Here's Wang Ning the actor who plays Joseph Asagai the Nigerian exchange student.   Acting is a little like putting on clothes - slowly getting into the skin of your character filling your heart with the character's soul.  To feel closer to his character Wang says he chose to perm his own hair rather than wear a wig. Jin Han the actor playing Walter Lee Younger the play's ambitious father says right before a performance he examines himself in the mirror in his wig and stage makeup.   In that second you suddenly believe I am that person. And that is when I charge onstage.   Onstage where Chinese audiences might momentarily understand the triumphs and travails of an African American family so different yet so similar to themselves...    .  Emily Feng NPR News Beijing.   