 Former Representative Mike Rogers a Republican of Michigan served on the House Intelligence Committee. He is with us on the line so obviously good morning Mr. Rogers.  Good morning. How are you?  Yes obviously you served alongside John Boehner. Let me ask you this. Criticism from conservatives. More than criticism - they are jubilant that he is leaving. Is that fair to Speaker Boehner?  Oh I do not think so. When they go back and look at his record I think they are going to find that he was more than supportive of a conservative issue. And to say that John Boehner did not govern as a conservative I think is probably inaccurate. I think his tactics sometimes baffled them as it did many in the House for a long time. But you have to remember this about the speaker - he was always an institutional guy meaning he believed in the institution of Congress and its importance. And this notion of speaker of the House he took very seriously meaning you have a party leader. That is what the majority leader is. And then you have the speaker of the House who is supposed to keep the institution functioning. He believed in that passionately. And so I think that is where some of that conflict came and I think where many people thought he may have been abandoning their conservative principles when in fact he was trying to manage the advancement in administration in the House of Representatives.  And also I think from the point of view of conservatives - some conservatives - reaching across the aisle in a sense even though I do not see that the speaker would have seen it that way.  I guess I am not sure what you mean by that. I mean do you mean they were upset that he did reach across the aisle?  Yes.  I do not know about that. What happened was this very diehard group - and it is about 29 members as a caucus - has decided that they want to manage the House in a very very different way than the majority of Republicans who are elected in what they would call a caucus. And so to - and what happened was it just created problems because you did not have enough votes. The Democrats decided they were not going to participate in that. They decided if someone was going to you know hang themselves then you do not get in the way. Matter of fact you hand them the rope. And that is what - that turned into this horribly dysfunctional body. And that is what you saw playing out politically. And I think the speaker did not want to run before. He was trying to forge deals that he thought would keep the government functioning and still score some conservative victories. That just was not enough for those 29 or so members. And that is where I think the dysfunction - and again remember the Democrats were not jumping up and down to help with that situation. And again why I think people would turn on the TV and think the place is horrifically dysfunctional. And to some degree they are exactly right.  Well you know though - we just have a little bit of time here. But for a man who already survived four rough years why now?  Well I do think the pope - one thing about John Boehner he is - he does wear his heart on his sleeve. He is a truly emotional guy. He believes in the work that he is doing. I think the pope was - incredibly moving moment for him a pinnacle of his career. Remember very humble beginnings nine kids grew up in a bar working at the bar. His parents slept on a pullout couch for goodness sake. He became speaker of the House. All of that has real meaning to him. When the pope I think came and that touched them him the way it did I think he realized listen I ran the last time 'ecause I did not think - I thought the House would be in trouble without me. I think I have come as far as I can go. It is time for me to move on. Remember it is a brutal job when everything is working well. It is not even close to being remotely interesting when it is - when you cannot get your own caucus to agree on policies.  Thank you very much for joining us.  Hey thank you for having me.  Former Representative Mike Rogers on the news that House Speaker John Boehner will resign from Congress step down from the speakership at the end of October. 