 NPR's Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson joins us from Cairo. Soraya thanks very much for being with us.  You are welcome Scott.  And that Camp David Peace Accord 1979 the scene of President Sadat and Menachem Begin making peace was a watershed moment for the Middle East. Is there a real possibility that treaty is going to be reopened?  Well that is what Egyptians want. I mean they really feel that they had no say in this matter - that this was something that was foisted upon them by the previous government - or actually President Sadat and then enforced by the previous government under Mubarak. So they feel like it is time to revisit this in a democratic society the people should have a say. And it does seem that the government is sort of bending to that will even though I think it is important to note the military and the government has repeatedly said that they are honoring the commitments as they stand for now.  How did relations between Egypt and Israel reach this point?  Well it is never been good between the Egyptian people necessarily and Israel. I mean again they have always been very much concerned about what happens with Palestinians and they have been pretty anti-Israel all along. It is just that under the previous government none of that was really tolerated in an open sense even though the Mubarak presidency and regime - or government I should say did nothing really to stop that sort of sentiment. And so after Hosni Mubarak was removed from power - or stepped down in February because of the uprising people have been really expressing this for the first time in a way that is very visible to the world.  The breech of Israel's embassy last week led to Egypt's military calling on the use special emergency state security courts. What are they? What is that about?  Well the emergency law - and these courts are a part of that - have been around for three decades. And there is some debate about whether there is actually an expansion of the law here or whether the military is basically saying OK we will no longer do military trials but we are going to do these state security courts instead. I mean this was their reaction to what happened to the embassy last weekend and 39 people have been referred for trial here. But people are very concerned that the military is using this as an excuse to clamp down on the democracy and the freedom which the people here are seeking.  And the trial of former president Hosni Mubarak continues. What is the latest on that front?  Last week we had many top officials testifying including the former vice president and intelligence chief and a former interior minister. All those sessions were closed. But this is still the prosecution's turn. They are very much trying to prove that Hosni Mubarak and his interior minister basically issued shoot-to-kill orders for protesters which resulted in the deaths of about 850 protesters. And their case at least as far as we have been able to ascertain - because again the government has now shut down coverage and in fact banned coverage for a while with threatening to put people in jail - but so far it seems the prosecution's had a very tough time making their case.  NPR's Soraya Sarhaddi Nelson in Cairo. Thanks so much.  You are welcome. 