 We know that forecasters they do the best they can. But it is an imprecise science. Their predictions may turn out differently. Having said that the latest forecast for Hurricane Florence is pretty bad.  It has reached sustained winds of 140 miles per hour. The hurricane is heading for the Carolinas at the moment. And one possibility is a storm like Hurricane Harvey which moved so slowly over Texas that it caused severe flooding. Here's climate scientist James Kossin.  This is a incredibly dangerous storm. The storm could be over North Carolina and traveling incredibly slowly on the order of you know just a few miles per hour even.  So this is a pretty good moment to pose a question - what makes a hurricane especially strong? NPR's Rebecca Hersher is here to answer that and more. Good morning Rebecca.  Good morning.  What makes a strong hurricane?  Heat especially hot oceans.  Heat yeah.  So when the water in the oceans gets hotter which is happening because of global warming - which is happening because us worth noting - it is like fuel for a hurricane's engine that is spinning up gaining strength. So you can think of it as a hot bath. The evaporating moisture feeds the storm. So here's the really bad news when it comes to that. The oceans are warmer now than they have ever been. And although - so this seems like a silver lining - although parts of the Atlantic had been sort of blessedly cool this year actually in part because of last year's crazy season perhaps the water that is feeding Florence right now is slightly warmer than normal.  Wow. So normal's bad. And now Florence is even warmer than normal. It is not just the strength of the storms though. They are also getting wetter. I mean I have read that some areas ended up with more than 60 inches of rain during Hurricane Harvey which is a ton of water. So why is that happening?  Yeah it is just out of control. Like when that amount of water falls on you there is nothing you can do. So this one has to do with speed. And we are not talking about the wind speed that you feel when a hurricane is on you. We are talking about the speed when the entire storm is moving forward...  OK.  ...So how fast is the whole storm moving? So what happened with Harvey is that the storm was moving slowly and then it stalled and basically stopped over Houston. That is why it was raining for so long. It just kept raining. And there is this study from earlier this year that shows that was actually part of a trend of tropical cyclones all over the world. So all over the world over the last 70 years hurricanes typhoons other cyclones have been slowing down. And one reason for that may be actually a slowing of wind due again to climate change. So if that happens with Florence it will be the latest in that trend.  Which is crazy because you think slower hurricane - that seems good and less dangerous. But slower is bad. It makes...  Yeah...  ...It worse.  ...Really bad.  And all this you know on top of the more traditional risks posed by these storms. I mean wind storm surges - we go through this every time there is a hurricane - people you know battening down the hatches. You have to really take these storms seriously.  Absolutely. Rain is super dangerous. So Harvey - it is worth remembering - it was responsible for at least 93 deaths. There is some evidence that freshwater flooding can be even more dangerous than storm surge because people do not take it seriously. And then there is storm surge and wind which are obviously no joke. So it is really important to take evacuation orders seriously. Make sure you are ready if you are in the path.  All right. NPR's Rebecca Hersher. Thanks so much Rebecca.  Thanks.   All right. This morning we are going to try to figure out who exactly should get credit for a U.S. economy that is looking pretty good right now.  Pop quiz - is it President Obama or does President Trump's election have something to do with it? Yesterday in the White House briefing room the head of Trump's Council of Economic Advisers Kevin Hassett had his answer.   I can promise you that economic historians will a hundred percent accept the fact that there was an inflection at the election of Donald Trump and that a whole bunch of data items started heading north.  NPR White House correspondent Scott Horsley is here to sort fact from fiction. Good morning Scott.  Good morning Rachel.  All right. Let us start with what the administration is claiming - 100 percent that things are getting better because of Donald Trump apparently.  Yeah. In many ways what we are seeing in the U.S. economy is a continuation of trends that began under former President Obama. We have seen a steady decline in the unemployment rate. We have seen steady growth in the overall number of jobs. Workforce participation has been basically flat. But what Kevin Hassett the White House economist was highlighting yesterday were some economic yardsticks where it is not a straight line where there was a turnaround beginning on or around November 2016 - tied into the election. And he is trying to make the point that not only is the U.S. economy doing well but it is doing well because of Donald Trump.  So Obama may have laid the groundwork but there are some things that are exclusive to the Trump administration. Hassett in particular said the economy had improved for blue-collar workers under the Trump administration. Is that right?  It is. You know if you look at overall job growth it is been very consistent - 3.6 million jobs added in the first 19 months of the Trump administration very close to the 3.9 million jobs added during the last 19 months of the Obama administration. But the makeup of those jobs has shifted. We are now seeing faster growth in what the Labor Department calls the goods-producing part of the economy - that is things like manufacturing construction oil-drilling - and slower growth in services which is everything else. Now services is a much bigger part of the overall U.S. economy. But the geography here is significant because goods-producing jobs tend to be concentrated in more rural or suburban areas which are also often strongholds for Republicans. So this could be a lifeline for the GOP in the midterm elections of November if the people who feel like they have seen the biggest improvement under President Trump...  Right.  ...Are precisely those who might have felt left behind in the previous administration.  We should point out though - so there are good things happening in the economy which makes you wonder why the president feels like it is necessary to gild the lily which he did by making a false statement on Twitter that his economic adviser had to correct.  That is right. He said yesterday that GDP is above the unemployment rate for the first time in something like a hundred years. In fact it is something like 10 years. But you are right. You know in business and in the White House Trump seems to operate under the principle that there is no sales pitch that cannot be improved with exaggeration. At some point though you might pay a price in credibility which can come back to bite you even if you actually have a pretty good story to tell.  Right. So speaking of that two polls came out yesterday showing President Trump's approval rating dropping below 40 percent even though in one the Quinnipiac poll 70 percent surveyed rate the economy as good or excellent. So how do you make sense of that - people are feeling good but they are not given him credit?  Yeah. It could be that they are decoupling their views on the economy from President Trump not giving him credit. Or it could be that they think he is doing a good job on the economy but his approval rating is taking a hit for other reasons. It has been a difficult couple of weeks for the president.  Right. NPR White House correspondent Scott Horsley. Thanks so much.  You are welcome.   A bombing campaign in the northern part of Syria continues. Pro-government forces are targeting the province of Idlib which is the last major rebel-held area there.  Now there were negotiations last week to try to slow or prevent this assault. The talks failed and millions of civilians could be in the path of the offensive now.  NPR's Ruth Sherlock joins us now where she is following all this from Beirut. Hey Ruth.  Hey Rachel.  Just give us the lay of the land. What can you discern is happening there in the last couple of days?  Well there is been shelling and airstrikes that have really intensified in the last week. So some people fear this is a prelude to a major ground offensive. Lots of these shells and airstrikes have hit towns and villages on the southern fringes of Idlib. And local medical workers say a hospital was among the sites that have been bombed. Medical points have been hit frequently throughout the war and so now some aid groups are resorting to setting up medical clinics in caves hoping that rocks will protect them better. We reached Karima Hamida  who is an older woman - an elderly lady who is in Kafr Zita one of the towns that is been targeted in recent days.  .  So here she says the bombs are falling on civilians. She and others are trying to cram into underground shelters or flee the town. But one of the major problems here is you know where can they go?  I mean Steve in the intro said millions of civilians are going to be in the path of this assault.  Well that is right. The U.N. says that there is now about 3 million people living in this area. About half of those are people who fled fighting in other parts of the country. And the Syrian government as it tried to take other parts of the country made these sort of forced surrender deals with rebels and their families whereby it agreed to let them go from these areas and sent them to the north. The problem now is that these people have nowhere to go. This area is on the border with Turkey but Turkey is already hosting some 3 12 million refugees. And it says it cannot open its borders anymore. So they are effectively trapped.  So what does this - I mean there were all these talks to try to prevent this from happening. Those fell through. So what is the recourse here to prevent this?  Well that is right. I mean there is so much at stake here. Turkey's continuing to talk to Russia and Iran. As you say they tried to secure a cease-fire deal but that has not succeeded yet. In the meantime Turkey's beefed up its presence in northern Syria with some of its troops. And it is also supporting the kind of non-extremist rebel groups there. There is so much at stake for Turkey here. They essentially you know have this conflict that may be about to unspool right on their border. There are different ways this could play out instead of being a full-scale offensive. There is mounting international pressure to avert this. Donald Trump has warned that the Assad regime should not recklessly attack Idlib? And some - you know the U.S. has made a deal with Britain and France to punish any use of chemical weapons by the Syrian government. There have been chemical attacks in this area before. But you know the majority of civilians have died here in conventional bombing. So that is not really the main issue. And the focus really rests on what agreements if any can be struck between Turkey and Assad's ally Russia.  NPR's Ruth Sherlock following the latest on the pending attack in Idlib province in Syria. Ruth's been following all this from her base in Beirut. Thanks so much. We appreciate it.  Thank you.  