  All right. Today we have an old favorite from the StoryCorps archives. Olly Neal is a retired judge for the Arkansas Court of Appeals. As a kid he did not really like school that much. At StoryCorps he told his daughter Karama about the day he cut class and wandered into a library.   I was a rather troubled high-school senior at the time about 16 years old. And I spotted this book that looked rather risque called The Treasurer Of Pleasant Valley. On the cover was a drawing of a woman who appeared to be wearing something that was basically see-through but the symbolism was really great for me at that age of 16. And then I realized if I read the book - two of my classmates - girls - were volunteering at the library. And if they saw me taking out a book they would tell the boys. Then my reputation would be down because I was reading books. And I wanted them to know that all I could do is fight and cuss. And so finally it come to me - just steal a book. And so when I finished the book in about a week or two I brought it back. And when I put it back there was another book by Frank Yerby. So I thought maybe I will read that too. So I took it under my jacket and later I brought it back. And that was a -  God there was another book by Frank Yerby. So I took it. And I think that semester I read four books by Frank Yerby. And several years 13 to be exact we were at a gathering at my high school for my class reunion. And the teacher who had been the librarian Mrs. Mildred Grady  was there. She told me that she saw me take that book when I first took it. She said first thought was to go and tell him boy you do not have to steal a book. You can check them out. They are free. Then she realized what my situation was - that I could not let anybody know I was reading. So she said that she decided that if a old boy would read a book she and Mrs. Saunders  would drive to Memphis and find another one for me to read. And they would put it in the exact same place where the one I had taken was. And every time I took one out they headed to Memphis to find another one. Now you got to understand that this was not an easy matter then because this is 1957 and '58 and black authors were not especially available number one. And number two Frank Yerby was not such a widely known author. And number three they had to drive all the way to Memphis to find it. And I credit Mrs. Grady for getting me in the habit of enjoying reading so that I was able to go to law school and survive. So that...  That is pretty cool.   Yeah.   That was Judge Olly Neal talking to his daughter Karama at StoryCorps in 2009. Judge Neal is retired now and he is writing a book. Their interview is archived along with hundreds of thousands of others at the Library of Congress. 