 We have been profiling scientists who explore natural world by listening to it. We call it Close Listening Decoding Nature Through Sound. Some scientists find they need to do more than just listen. NPR's Christopher Joyce and audio producer Bill McQuay of the Cornell Lab of Ornithology introduce us to scientists who learned to capture what animals are saying and even talk back to them.  The invention of the phonograph record was a big deal for bird scientists. They could record birdsong and then sit down and really listen - figure out how they communicate - sometimes anyway.   This is March 1 1946.  That is Arthur Allen from the Cornell Lab of Ornithology. Allen was the lab's founder and one of the nation's leading birders.   We are set up on a shore of Mattamuskeet Lake N.C. recording the whistling swans. Another cold windy morning and the recorder is apparently not working quite right. And the needle is jumping perhaps on account of the cold.  He was trying to actually cut an acetate record of singing birds.  Fortunately the technology got better and a bit more portable. Let us fast-forward 45 years.   Up here in the canopy there is another flock. These are the hardest birds to detect.  It is 1991 and that is Ted Parker from a field recording of an NPR radio expedition story in the Bolivian rainforest. Parker was an ornithologist with Conservation International. He spent months at a time in the tropics lugging around a portable tape recorder. He had a legendary skill for using his ears.   My parents bought me records of bird recordings that were made by people at Cornell. I can remember hours and hours you know just putting the needle back and forth back and forth. And my mother would say you know you are going to destroy the record player.  Parker memorized the sounds of over 4000 bird species. He used his tape recorder to do some of the most extensive bird surveys in the tropics.  These birds would spend all their time in that foliage that is 130 140 feet above the ground. If you do not know their voices you - there is no way you could come up with a good list on the canopy species.  But Parker wanted more than lists. He wanted know how birds divide up their territory. How do you do that when you cannot see them?  Here's how - mating pairs of birds each have their own territory. Parker hit on the idea of provoking mating pairs to reveal themselves and their patch in the forest. He would record a mating pair. Then he would play their song back to them. The birds were confused. They thought it was a threatening outsider.  The other thing is if you are outside the territory and you play back the songs the birds will come up to the edge of their territory.  And they would vocalize in essence shouting hey get out of here.   It is antiphonal duet where the male and female singing different songs. It is the territorial display. What I do is try to rouse them all. So that I will actually get a pair here a pair there a pair behind me and you can map all the territories in the forest eventually.  Parker was doing just such a bird census in Ecuador when he died in a plane crash in 1993. He was just 40 years old.  Years later a biologist using a similar technique discovered something no one had imagined - how these bird warnings are adopted and passed on by completely different kinds of animals. At his lab at the University of Montana biologist Erick Greene explains how it works. A small bird sees danger - let us say a hawk or an owl flying around. It warns other birds by making a seet call.  Because it sounds like this. .  Then there is a mobbing call. Greene demonstrates by pressing his lips to the back of his hand.  .  Birds make that call when they see a perched predator. It brings other birds out of the trees to mob the predator and chase it away. Now Greene had watched birds do this for years. Then one day he noticed something well squirrelly.  We mean that literally.  He realized that squirrels seemed to be mimicking these warning calls from birds as soon as they heard them almost exactly even with a totally different vocal apparatus and chipmunks did it too. Greene was astonished that mammals and birds would share this early warning system.  We have got these complex - what we call communication networks and it is not just one species yakking to members of its own kind. It is all these different species - not only of birds but mammals as well - and they are all sharing information.  Being a scientist Greene had to observe this happening to be sure of it. At his lab he shows me how he does that.  Let me take you down the hall and I will show you some more of our robo-raptors.  Robo-raptors - mechanical birds of prey.  And so this is going to be a robo-pygmy owl.  Greene holds a dead owl. It is stuffed with small motors and a computer board that make it move. These are Greene's villains. He takes them into the forest to set off this alarm system.  I went with Greene to the woods near Ithaca N.Y. to see how he uses those robo-raptors. He has to hide them at first inside a fake trunk three feet high. He can then raise and lower the trunk with a remote control.  So this is neat see? We have walked out with this fake tree trunk. Underneath it is hidden a robotic owl so we are going to be able to lower the tree trunk down with the garage door opener when we are back here exposing this little robotic owl. And so then then we will be really interested to see how these birds respond to a predator.  A few days later Greene's team had everything in place. They exposed the robo-raptor. It did not take long before a tufted tit mouse spotted it and started the mobbing call.   Then a white breasted nut hatch joined in then house sparrows. And if that was not enough the jays chimed in. And just as Greene has now observed numerous times the squirrels got into the act. It is a madhouse.  Birds squirrels chipmunks - and they all propel these warnings through the forest at says Greene 100 miles an hour.  It is almost as if there is a bow wave preceding the raptor. So in many ways I have come to appreciate that it is hard to be a hawk.  Close listeners like Greene are in a way hearing the world as other animals do...  ...And finding that it is a world in a constant state of negotiation across species everywhere there is life. I am Christopher Joyce NPR News.  And I am Bill McQuay. 