 St. Paul  the Broken Bones' new album is all about blood - familial blood. The eight-man rock and soul band from Birmingham Ala. is fronted by Paul Janeway whose vocal gymnastics have helped earn the band an opening spot with the Rolling Stones and a fan base that extends beyond the deep South. On this new album Paul Janeway sings about three generations of Alabama men - his grandfather his father and himself.  ST.   Blood is what I cannot escape harbored in our DNA finger on the trigger now figuring out just how did we get this far? How did it get so hard?  Their album is called Young Sick Camellia. Paul Janeway joins us now from member station WBHM in Birmingham. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you so much for having me.  So tell us about your father and grandfather. What made you want to devote so much artistic talent to trying to tell that three-generation story?  Well I think for me it is just one of those things growing up in the South and I am born and raised in Alabama and my papaw  and my dad are both from the South. And for me you know I think in these kind of times that we are in instead of trying to figure out how you can fix the world's problems and everything I think you look inward. And for me it is just kind of that generational - you know the differences between my dad and the differences between him and his father and kind of exploring that idea. Me and my father you know had a complicated relationship up until you know I became - I got in my 20s. And him and his father you know always had a complicated relationship. And I just - to me that is a theme that I think a lot of people can relate to but it was something that was hitting me you know in the right spots and has kind of been a well of creativity. It is almost therapeutic in a way.  Yeah. Your grandfather's voice is even here on the album.   I am turning 83 here next month. My health is going bad so I am thinking about what I am going to - whom I am gonna give what .  What is crazy about that - and it is even hard for me listening to it because about two months later after I recorded that he got lung cancer and passed away. And that - the album took a different tone with me than what I initially wanted it to do. And I think it is almost haunting in a way now.  Well it sounds like his life and his passing were part of the creative process for you.  I think it turned that way. You know I think you feel like there is something the universe was telling you.  Camellia is the Alabama state flower I understand.  Yes it is .  Why Young Sick Camellia?   Well I know this is crazy to hear from a boy from Alabama but I love art. I love Caravaggio and...  That is not a - now why do you say it is crazy to hear? Of course it is not. People in Alabama like art.  That is true. However where I grew up it was not the case. But I was obsessed. I got - you know I got obsessed with Caravaggio and one of his paintings is Young Sick Bacchus. And you know the whole idea behind that is that you know it really was a self-portrait of Caravaggio when he was sick and you know he would look in the mirror. So with this record being kind of a self-reflective record focusing on kind of through my lens and exploring those relationships it was the idea of Young Sick Camellia which you know I am born and raised in the state Alabama. That was the intention behind it.  ST.   Southern pride backed by Southern greed. Everybody selling that southern thing. But we cannot go no. Panthers in the pines with their hollow teeth screaming hallelujah from their factories but we cannot know. Cardboard devils and their megaphones telling all the saints that they were wrong but they cannot know.  You seem to have complicated thoughts about being a proud Alabaman.  I do. I mean it is one of those things where you are born and raised here. But I mean I have said this before I feel like kind of a broken southerner because while there are things that I love about being from here - I love Alabama football and I love - there is some cultural things I love the food. But at the same time you know on a typical - what the typical politics or train of thought is I disagree with you know with a lot of the majority of those things as being someone who probably tends to as some would categorize it a little bit more liberal. And it is a struggle because you do not - it is hard to find yourself and be comfortable in your own skin because while there is things you love about the South there is also certain tenets about the South that you do not love. But I still live here and so I think what happens is a lot of people move away and get away from it but I am here.   Let me ask you about a pretty straightforward and lovely love song. Let us listen to Apollo.  ST.   Telling all the stars her name hoping they just tell her hey and I love you baby. I love you baby. Running all through my brain wishing that I could stay. Yeah just to hold you baby just to hold you baby. Broken down from my orbit. Captain can you get her to call me?  As I told my wife this is the closest thing I am ever going to get to writing a love song for her. It is basically kind of this story of this astronaut who is being cut off in space and the last thing that he wants the world to know and mentally is that you know the one that he loves to make sure that she knows that she is loved or he is loved. You know those are the kind of people that you hold on to. And so I told her - I was like that is the closest thing I will get to a love song so just enjoy it.  So how do you feel now that the album is out? Is it helping you work things out?  It feels unfinished at this point because the initial idea was to do three EPs and it be from my perspective my father's perspective and my grandfather's perspective. And it grew into this thing where it became an album. So this right now feels like part one. This is my perspective. I feel like I almost want to go back to the studio immediately and try to finish part two because there is still a lot of creativity there.  Paul Janeway of St. Paul  the Broken Bones - their new album Young Sick Camellia. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you for having me.  ST.   Eye in the sky's watching everything that we do. They as not got no reason but lately our world seems so cruel. Electric girls kissing every one of my wounds. Just for you and me now trying to figure it all out . 