 Now we will hear from Representative Mike Coffman of Colorado's sixth district. He is a Republican. And he says he will attempt to force a vote on a House bill that would extend the DACA protections. He joins us from his office in Colorado. Good morning sir.  Good morning.  We heard from Kris Kobach there. I think you were listening. And he says the program is not legal. What is your view?  Oh I think he is right to the degree that there is constitutional case law that says a president cannot unilaterally through executive orders make immigration law without the consent of Congress. And so by moving forward with this legislation we are dealing - we are going to address that constitutional problem by putting it into law. And so I think it is important to do this. And that is why I am doing the discharge petition to force a vote on this issue.  Why is it important to do that?  Well I - you know I think these are young people that were taken to the United States illegally as children and that grew up here went to school here oftentimes know of no other country. There is no question we need to do immigration reform and find a solution. I think it makes it much more difficult to come to the country illegally and easier to come to the country legally for those people that we need here. But these - you know I think we need - there is got to be some level of compassion here in that you know I have got a young lady that came in to my office a couple of years ago wanted to go to the Naval Academy and graduated top of her class from one of our public high schools. She had all I think the right you know the right markings for somebody who I would nominate for the Academy. But her parents took her from Mexico when she was only a year old. Now she is never been back to Mexico. She does not know anything about Mexico. This is the only country she is ever known. And she wants to serve the only country she is ever known in the military. I think she ought to be allowed to do so. So DACA is just a temporary solution. We need a permanent solution for these young people. I think quite frankly they need a path to citizenship based on military service based on education or based on work history.  Just briefly what does your proposed bill do exactly?  What the bill does is - a bipartisan bill - it extends DACA out for three years. Puts it in law. Takes care of that constitutional question that was raised by the Kansas secretary of state. And - but it gives certainty to these DACA recipients. And it gives breathing space for the Congress of the United States to find a permanent solution.  All right the issue though is that you do not have a lot of support from your caucus on this. You need 23 GOP votes to trigger a House floor vote and you only have 12. Immigration is an issue that divides the Republican electorate as well. How are you going to make the case to your colleagues who are wary of the political costs?  Oh I think if the Democrats hold firm I think there is - there will definitely be enough Republicans to get on this bill. The - people are reluctant to get on it if they know - if they do not know it is going to be voted on. And so I think this challenge from the Texas attorney general who is given this deadline of September 5 in which I believe the president will announce that he is suspending the program based on that constitutional question raised by the Texas attorney general - I think that that is a catalyst really to force the Congress to deal with these issues. Do we really want the visual of deporting these young people that are working in - often working and going to school you know in higher education? I mean do we really want that? And I do not think we want that visual. I do not think it reflects well on this country. So I think by forcing Congress to act I believe that we will have the necessary bipartisan votes to pass in the House pass in the Senate and get it to the president's desk. I hope that the president when he announces the suspension of the program also says that I want a bill on my desk passed by the Congress that puts this into law and takes care of the constitutional issues. That is what I hope the president says.  Representative Mike Coffman of Colorado sixth district. Thank you very much.  Thank you. 