  You know aging has its benefits right? There is wisdom. There is experience. There is retirement - for some people at least. And yet there is this undying quest for the fountain of youth because what happens to our bodies is - I mean let us just say it - not that appealing - weaker muscles less endurance overall slowdown losing your hair. So what if these symptoms of getting old could be stopped or slowed or even reversed? NPR's Elise Hu has been exploring this - trying to get younger. This is part of our series Future You which looks at emerging technologies. Hi there Elise.  Good morning.  You look - I do not know. You do not look younger. You do not older. What - I do not know what I should say here. But...  Thanks for not stepping in it.  Yeah I am not going to step in it. But are you really telling me that there is some kind of treatment that treats aging?  Yes. And we have to be careful about getting too excited here. But what scientists have found in mice and other organisms is that they can speed up aging symptoms or - more beneficial to us - slow down and reverse them giving the mice better blood flow more vitality longer endurance. And what is happening is they can take two mice born on the same day and after a year of life feed one an experimental molecule. And one of them who did not get the molecule is kind of long in the tooth right? It has gray hair. It looks older. It runs on a treadmill slowly or even falls off. The other gets the molecule - same real age as the older looking mouse - but its hair is still dark and it is just running and running running like it is a teenager.  But how is this possible?  I know. It sounds crazy right? I met the aging researcher David Sinclair at Harvard Medical School and he explained it to me.  We have a molecule that we put in their water called NMN. And their muscles appear younger and they can run further. They get new blood vessels. They have more blood flow.  So to make the mice physically younger what they are doing is boost something in the cells called sirtuins. And the sirtuins are like emergency responders for cells. They repair the cellular damage that comes with aging.  So this is not just about like exercising and keeping yourself healthy. This is a molecule that these mice are just drinking in their water and it is working to slow down aging.  Correct.  And so my next question - can I do this?  That is the big question.  Right.  So of course you can ingest something. But will it make you feel like you are a kid again? - is the big question. They are working on it. There are clinical trials in humans that are going on now in Boston. And geneticists behind this say they are hoping to show that in the future humans could be living at least 10 20 years longer. And we are not talking just life span we are also talking health span - so the healthy kind of years where you can be present and enjoy your activities and enjoy your families.  So did you ingest some of this stuff and actually try this?  OK. Well I tried a full anti-aging regimen - so not just this particular molecule - from an oncologist and a longevity specialist named Dr. Peter Attia. And just to be upfront about this people like Attia and Dr. Sinclair they stand to make money off of these solutions. But I wanted to know more about what they are selling. So I tried Dr. Attia's approach. It emphasizes five key things - one more sleep and meditation to keep your stress levels low...  Good.  ...Also aerobic exercise most days of the week - so 45 minutes a day if possible three a healthier diet and finally this NMN molecule that is being tested now in humans. It is currently available as a supplement. And Attia chose one for me to try with a bunch of caveats.  The supplement industry is pretty loosely regulated and therefore you cannot always be sure that what somebody says is in there is actually in there. Truthfully my intuition is that most of them are . I think there are others that are at least legitimately making what they are saying they are making.  And David of course like I said these are not the same as approved drugs but I took the molecule anyway as instructed and did everything else - the fasting the exercise the sleep and the meditation. Here it goes - kind of sweet kind of chalky.  Do you feel younger? Did you get younger? Like I do not know how to ask this appropriately.  Right. And none of us know how long we are going to live.  Yeah.  But I got an initial blood draw before all of this. And then at the end of the six-week regimen I got my blood drawn again. And the biomarkers in there like liver enzyme and blood glucose they went in the right direction - enough that an algorithm from a biohacking startup that calculates longevity based on key indicators for disease - it found that I shaved about five years off my internal or biological age which is not bad.  So you have been covering this stuff - I mean the future with this general time span this marker of like the year 2050. So what would it mean if the world with this huge population already - if humans were at that point living even longer if this stuff was working?  Right. That is a good question. And I put it to David Sinclair and he admits it is a tricky problem.  Well if we all live forever that is not going to work. We will have to find a new planet. Another bad scenario is we have a lot of people around that is taking up jobs and politicians who will stay in power for a century. That is a concern.  But he is an optimist. He thinks that human ingenuity and the potential that could be unlocked if everyone had more health span and not just life span could knock out the scarier effects that we are talking about.  All right. Well we will check in maybe in 30 years - in 2050 - see how you are doing and how much younger you are or older...  Yeah. I will be like 7 years old.  Yeah that is perfect.  .  Thanks Elise.  You bet.  All right. You can learn a lot more about this in our video series Future You With Elise Hu. You can find that at npr.orgfutureyou. It is also on NPR's YouTube channel.  