 Japan just had elections that ushered in a major political change. The new government could revise its relationship with the U.S. And the Obama administration's ambassador to Japan who will have to deal with all of this is not an expert on the region. He is a Silicone Valley lawyer and political fundraiser. This is just one sign of how President Obama is continuing a time-honored tradition of rewarding donors with plum assignments abroad. NPR's Michele Kelemen reports.  When President Obama came into office talking about change he did raise some expectations that he would change the way he would choose new ambassadors. President  My general inclination is to have civil service wherever possible serve in these posts.  He told reporters back in January that there will be some political appointees to ambassadorships but that he wanted to reward the rank and file too. President  I want to recruit young people into the State Department to feel that this is a career track that they can be on for the long term and so my expectation is is that high-quality civil servants are going to be rewarded.  But so far more than half of the ambassadors he is named are political appointees  including several so-called bundlers according to Dave Levinthal of the Center for Responsive Politics. Mr.  They are people who are financiers who have helped the Obama campaign from its outset and they are getting some plum positions  France Spain Germany the U.K. Japan Canada.  British news reports highlighted the fact that the new U.S. ambassador there Louis Susman has been called the vacuum cleaner for his ability to pull in political donations. In Japan Silicon Valley lawyer John Roos  who had never been to the country  is already settling in as ambassador. Levinthal says Roos was a bundler who brought in more than 500000 for the Obama campaign. Mr.  It does not mean necessarily that these people are underqualified. It does not necessarily mean that these people should not be in the positions that they are in. But clearly they do have a relationship with the president that goes beyond just one of merit. There is a financial relationship there and we just want to make sure that people understand that there is.  This is of course a tradition in U.S. politics a tradition most countries think is crazy according to Ronald Neumann who runs the U.S. Academy of Diplomacy. He says the system is a holdover from the 18th and 19th centuries and most countries  France Germany the U.K. and Japan included  now rely mainly on their civil servants. Mr.  Now there are smaller countries in Africa the Middle East where they regularly exile their political opponents to ambassadorships or send their favorite general. I just do not happen think those are particularly the models that the U.S. would emulate.  Neumann is not opposed to political appointees. Some of the biggest figures in U.S. diplomatic history have been non-career diplomats. But he says what ends up happening is that career diplomats get all the tough assignments. Neumann has been ambassador to Algeria Bahrain and Afghanistan. Mr.  We are sending a lot of people to rather hard nasty places like Afghanistan and Iraq and what you are perceiving is the view that that service is not nearly as important as raising money for the president. That is a little bit of a downer. Yeah. On the other hand I have not seen people dropping out of the foreign service because they are not going to get to be ambassador to London.  He had hoped President Obama might do things differently than past presidents. And there is still time to change the record with many more ambassadorial positions still to be filled. Michele Kelemen NPR News Washington. 