 You could be forgiven for being confused by what is going on with the future of immigrants known as DREAMers. These are children whose parents brought them to this country illegally. The White House and Democrats could not seem to agree on what they did or did not agree to in a meeting on Wednesday. That meeting focused on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program or DACA. And for more on what the people most affected by the future of DACA are thinking we turn to NPR's Richard Gonzales. He is been talking to so-called DREAMers about the developments. Morning Richard.  Good morning.  Tell us about some of these people you have been talking to and what they are telling you.  Well I am hearing a lot of skepticism you know a feeling of whiplash. You know first the president says he will end DACA. And a week later he says he wants to make a deal to allow the DREAMers to stay in this country. Then you have a GOP backlash and conditions that are placed on the deal. One DREAMer I spoke to called it a psychological torture. And another DREAMer 23-year-old Itzel Guillen of San Diego County put it this way.  I definitely felt a lot more anxiety than I have ever in my life. This feels like a roller coaster that is not stopping. So I would say that a lot of other DREAMers in my same position are feeling the same exact way.  Richard might another way to look at this be that the president does keep saying he wants to help DREAMers? Are any of the people you talk to finding a little bit of encouragement in that?  Well you know I heard two reactions to that idea. One they do not want to be used as a bargaining chip. And two under no current circumstance is it a time to expect a victory and to celebrate. Here's another DREAMer. She is 25 years old. Her name is Mitzie Perez of San Bernardino Calif.  I think being undocumented you do not really get to celebrate a lot in your lifetime but we need a strong policy that protects people under DACA but that is not going to hinder the rest of the community.  And so by that she means that they do not want a deal that would let us say implement the E-Verify system which requires employers to check the legal status of people they hire. To the DREAMers that is just another way of increasing the threat of deportation to their undocumented parents. And they also do not want a deal in which their DACA status is a tradeoff for enhanced border security. That they say would further what they consider the militarization of the border.  Let me inject a word here and the word is amnesty. The president is getting pushback from conservatives who say he has flip-flopped on immigration. And he is now offering what amounts to an amnesty to people in this country illegally. Do these DREAMers you have talked to - do they think of this possible deal as amnesty?  No they do not. They see a potential deal as just an opportunity to keep doing what they are already doing - working studying joining the military. One young man Ronnie James of New York leads a group of black DREAMers. They are young people from the Caribbean and Africa. And he says he cannot call himself optimistic or pessimistic.  I am being realistic. I would not want to be too optimistic because I see what happened with DACA. That was a huge breakthrough and now it is being taken away. So I am not particularly optimistic. I am hopeful.  All right. That is one of many voices talking there with NPR's Richard Gonzales. Richard thanks so much.  It is my pleasure. 