 On this date 200 years ago a young U.S. Naval captain penned the words We have met they enemy and they are ours the words of Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry whose remarkable victory over the British changed the course of the War of 1812. A full-scale reenactment was held over Labor Day weekend to commemorate the Battle of Lake Erie. And Jeff St. Clair of member station WKSU was there.   Row feather rope. JEFF ST.  America had brashly declared war in 1812 to stop the British from kidnapping U.S. sailors to man the royal navy and to settle trade issues. A year later the war against the world's leading superpower was not going well. Practice for reenacting the second Battle of Lake Erie is not going well either. The crew of volunteer rowers here in Put-In-Bay on Lake Erie's South Bass Island is having a hard time getting their 19th century longboat to cooperate in the waves. Finally we pull alongside a reconstructed ship from Perry's fleet packed with tourists. The Niagara is a fully fitted early 19th century Great Lakes warship. It was from here among these remote islands of western Lake Erie that Perry sailed out to meet the British on September 10 1813. Senior captain and historian Walter Rybka says the 28-year-old Perry threw himself into battle.  Perry was phenomenally brave and determined but he was damn lucky.  Somehow Perry survived two hours of hellacious fire that killed or maimed 75 percent of the crew on his ship the Lawrence.  His last gun had been knocked out of action on the starboard side. His rigging was cut to pieces he could not maneuver he could no longer fight.  And that is when Perry hopped into his longboat and under heavy fire rowed to the Niagara. Rybka says Perry brought along his battle flag emblazoned with the words Do not Give Up the Ship.  But the only way to do that was to give up the ship and go to the next one. The real motto was Do not Give Up.  It is now the day of the battle. Fifteen tall ships sail out to the spot where the struggle took place 200 years ago. From the Niagara Captain Wesley Heerssen hails the fleet.  All tall ships in this battle reenactment please standby for roll call. Switch to channel...   And the battle begins. Six ships make up the British line. The American fleet has nine.   This is the largest sailing reenactment ever attempted in the U.S. And the Coast Guard has its hands full clearing a path for the tall ships amid a swarm of more than 2000 speed boats and pleasure craft.   The sea of boats has churned the lake so in this version of the Battle of Lake Erie Perry portrayed by an actor sporting enormous sideburns is motored from his ship onto the Niagara. Then Heerssen hails the enemy fleet for the final maneuver of the reenactment.  All right. To the British fleet we are going to pass two whistles starboard to starboard passage...   The Niagara cuts nimbly across the British line fires its last set of broadsides and as smoke fills the air...   ...for a second despite all the distractions one of America's most famous sea battles vividly comes to life - and suddenly it is over. The smoke clears and it just another day on the lake perfect conditions for sailing.  Yay we won the war.   The battle was a turning point in the War of 1812. America had lost Detroit and much of the Northwest Territory. Historian Walter Rybka says if Perry had given up the ship the Canadian border would have been much further south.  I think Michigan probably would have been lost to us and maybe Wisconsin as well.  A wreath is being laid today on the site of Perry's victory. A buoy serves as a permanent marker in the peaceful waters of western Lake Erie. For NPR news I am Jeff St. Clair.   This is NPR News. 