 When you hear the words international surrogate you might think of American couples hiring women from poorer countries to carry their babies. But more and more with China's economy booming wealthy Chinese women are the ones finding surrogates in the United States. And today we are going to tell you the story of two women - a mom from China and an American surrogate - and about the crash course in transcontinental communication they get along the way. This story comes from NPR's new international podcast Rough Translation. Here's reporter Marianne McCune.  Hi .  Hi nice to meet you.  I am so excited .  Were at the Portland airport. Jacquie is 20 weeks pregnant. And for the first time she is meeting the woman whose baby she is carrying.  I have a big belly .  Jessie the Chinese mother-to-be takes a look and everybody starts crying.  Sorry.  It is OK.  We agreed to use first names only to protect their privacy.  Thank you very much.  You are welcome.  Jacquie the American will make 30000 for this but that is not the reason she did it. She is a mother herself and a nurse and she wanted to help someone. And she is become excited about something else - this friendship - forging an intimate bond with someone on the other side of the world.  I have never been to China and I would like to see what their lives are like.  She hardly knows Jessie the Chinese mom. All of their conversations have been translated by an app.  I now see you he has been with us because I...  Now she will get to find out what Jessie wants from their partnership. The next day we bring an interpreter and Jessie tells her story. She and her husband tried for years to have their own child. And when she did finally get pregnant at seven months in...   My face my hands the skin it is so tight.  Jessie ended up in the hospital with a condition called pre-eclampsia. Her blood pressure was dangerously high. The doctors worried her kidneys would fail. And the only way to save her was to remove the baby by C-section.  After one and a half day my baby's gone - did not make it.  I also feel that I killed my baby.  No no.  No.  .  We are starting to form a bond that I hope will continue for our lifetime.  Jessie is spending several hundred thousand dollars to have a baby through an American surrogate. It would be much cheaper in Ukraine for example. One reason more Chinese couples are choosing American surrogates is that blue passport - not necessarily to immigrate to the U.S. though.  .  Jessie told us that an American passport has advantages in China. Some universities in China want to attract foreigners so they actually lower their tough admission standards for them. But a much bigger benefit of having a surrogate here Jesse says is clear laws. In American states where surrogacy is legal there are lots of protections. Jacquie and Jessie negotiated a long legal contract that says things like Jacquie cannot change her mind after the birth and keep the baby. And Jessie can tell her to abort if the baby has a genetic disease. But during this visit to Jacquie there is something the Chinese mother needs to get off her chest that is not in the contract.  .  In China she tells Jacquie only her parents and her husband know the truth. She is told all her friends a lie.   I only told them I am pregnant I am going to have a baby.  And she is pretending she went to the U.S. to give birth herself.   You are the American. You cannot understand that somebody knows my baby not from my own uterus. It will be really difficult for my child to grew up as normal kid.  In China Jessie says surrogacy is not only illegal it is stigmatized. She fears people will tell her son she is not even his real mother.   I know this is not fair to you. And I know you will not feel good about that but I am sorry. I really cannot keep contact with you after my child born. I am so sorry.  It is OK. You know you are his mother. I was just hoping that maybe we could keep like a friendly relationship without mentioning the surrogacy. But even if that is not possible I will understand.  Thank you. You are my angel.  The next time I check in with Jacquie her legs are swelling. She is had to take off work. Jacquie's blood pressure is weirdly high. And five weeks before the due date comes bad news - she has pre-eclampsia the same condition that caused Jessie to lose her baby and almost die. When Jacquie starts to have trouble breathing her doctors decide they have to get the baby out now. Jessie gets the message in China and sends a message to us saying she feels like ice water was thrown at her heart. And the surrogacy agency has told her something else that doctors are only just starting to understand - that the baby's genes are likely a factor in Jacquie's pre-eclampsia. The surrogacy may have put Jacquie's life in more danger than she realized.  .  Jessie says that to Jacquie she will forever be sorry. And that is the start of a mad dash to northwestern Oregon. It will take Jessie a day and a half to reach the hospital from China. And while she is in transit the baby is born. In the delivery room the baby starts to grunt a little. He is having trouble getting a breath. They whisk him away to put a tube in his nose. By the time Jessie drives up to the hospital she still does not know if her baby is healthy. She runs inside and the nurse shows her two doors. Jacquie is on the left the baby on the right. She chooses.  Hi Jacquie. Are you OK?  Oh my God. I am OK I am OK.  It is Jessie who pushes her surrogate's IV across the hall so they can meet the baby together. He is still got a tube in his nose but he is OK. Jessie holds her baby for the first time. He opens his eyes and stares up at her.  Hey that is the most we have seen his eyes.  In the contract these two women signed Jacquie the surrogate requested at least two hours with the mother and baby after birth. But after all that is happened the Chinese mother is not thinking about the contract anymore. She lets Jacquie hold the baby as often as she likes and she even invites Jacquie to cross the Pacific. The translation in Jacquie's phone reads welcome to China. For NPR News I am Marianne McCune.  