 In Russia's former imperial capital of St. Petersburg descendants of the former royal family wed in what is being billed as the first such ceremony in over a century. NPR's Charles Maynes sends us this postcard from St. Petersburg.  It was in this city in 1917 that the last Russian czar Nicholas II was overthrown setting in motion a grim set of events as local tour guide Olga Vdovichenko explains.  .  The czar's family - Nicholas his wife and five children - were banished to the city of Yekaterinburg and eventually executed by a Bolshevik firing squad all of which made events in St. Petersburg on Friday unusual. For the first time in more than a century Russians could again see Romanovs not only happy but very much alive.   .  Under the dome of St. Isaac's Cathedral Grand Duke George Mikhailovich Romanov married his Italian bride Victoria Romanovna Bettarini in an Orthodox ceremony before priests and assembled guests including the renowned nationalist Alexander Dugin.  It is a kind of remembrance of eternal Russia - of Russia of sacred czars and patriarchs and church. It is more or less as imperial a wedding.  Grand Duke George is the great-grandnephew of Nicholas II. And George is alive only because his great-grandfather the czar's brother fled Russia after the revolution. In interviews George insists he never lost his Russian roots.    My first language was Russian even though I was born in Spain and raised in France. My grandparents raised me on Russian history and culture. It is always been in my soul.  Today the grand duke claims he is the hereditary crown prince of the Romanov dynasty even as some family members disagree and he has no intention to rule. He runs a charitable foundation issuing grants not edicts. But do not tell that to Viktor or Olga...  .  .  ...A couple of avowed monarchists who like many at the wedding declined to give their full names.  .  Without an emperor Russia cannot exist says Viktor. Russia needs a czar not a Soviet premier or president.  .  We always knew the Romanovs would return adds Olga. We have waited. And now it is finally happened.   The long-awaited royal atmosphere included goose-stepping soldiers a parade of women in those English wedding hats and dukes and duchesses of minor European royal families. Taking all this in were Alexander and Ivan visitors from Siberia who happened on the scene. They seemed confused about the royal lineage.  .  So let me get this straight says Alexander. He is the great-great-great-grandnephew of Nicholas' third cousin. This royal blood is too watered down added Ivan.  .  Nearby Oleg was trying and failing to sell tickets for canal cruises to tourists. He was slightly miffed at the wedding pulling away his customers.  .  Besides we already have Mr. Putin he joked noting President Vladimir Putin was practically a monarch after more than two decades in power. Still some argued with a country like Russia with its twists of history you just never know. Could there be a new czar? Vera who was working the event checking in guests says never say never.  I think everything can change like tomorrow or after tomorrow. Everything can change.   As the royal couple emerged into the cold well-wishers cheered as the grand duke kissed his bride - the future of the czar's dynasty still far from certain but George most certainly king for a day. Charles Maynes NPR News St. Petersburg.   